+++
title = "000 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-07-04, 19:58:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/HKVZO0pVrf0)]]



Dear Group,  
  
Adi Shankaracharya established four AmnAya pITha’s in four corners of  
India and these are believed to have existed in unbroken traditions  
from those days, under successive Shankaracharyas. Being great  
centers of learning and attracting devotees, the pITha’s have  
survived through several stages in the life of the Indian nation and  
interacted with rulers and other leaders of the society for over a  
millennium. The website of the Shringeri pItha <http://www.sringeri.net/history>  
has the following to say:  
  
\<Besides being a centre of spiritual power, Sringeri also came to be  
known as a great place of traditional learning owing to the presence  
of Goddess Sharada and the erudition of the Acharyas of the Peetham.  
The Acharyas were instrumental in bringing forth commentaries on the  
Vedas and in further expounding the Bhashyas of Sri Adi  
Shankaracharya. The Acharyas also wrote a number of independent works  
related to Advaita besides producing a number of hymns underlining  
their ardent devotion to the non-dual Supreme worshipped in  
multifarious forms. The Peetham thus came to be regarded as the  
Vyakhyana Simhasana, The Throne of Transcendental Wisdom.  
Consequently, the Birudavali hails the Acharya as the occupier of this  
throne. Many regard Goddess Sharada Herself to be moving in the form  
of the presiding Acharya of the Peetham.  
  
In the 14th century, royal patronage to the Peetham began with the  
founding of the famous Vijayanagar empire under the divine guidance of  
the 12th Acharya, Jagadguru Sri Vidyaranya. The austerity of the  
Acharya influenced the rulers to such an extent that they began ruling  
in the name of the Acharya and granted the Peetham the rights over  
secular administration of the land. At the rulers’ request, the  
Acharya began conducting a Durbar during the Navaratri festival - an  
occasion deemed by the rulers to honour their Guru. Subsequently, the  
Acharya came to be known as the Karnataka Simhasana  
Prathisthapanacharya and the Peetham became a mighty institution - a  
Samsthanam and is known to this day as the Jagadguru Shankaracharya  
Mahasamsthanam, Dakshinamnaya Sri Sharada Peetham at Sringeri. Over  
the succeeding centuries, a number of empires and rulers including the  
Mysore Maharajahs Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan, the Nizam of Hyderabad,  
the Peshwas and the Keladi rulers and Travancore Rajas were drawn  
towards the Peetham and respected the Acharya as their Guru.>  
  
The same must be true of the other pITha’s . I also venture a guess  
that over these centuries the pITha’s would have amassed a  
considerable body of documents - philosophical, religious and also  
secular.  
  
On this background I would be curious to know if any use has been made  
of the libraries and documents of the pITha’s to  
  
a) write histories of the pITha’s themselves and  
b) as source material for the construction of the socio-economic and  
political history of the respective regions and of India, for the  
period of over a millennium since the establishment of the pITha’s .  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, July 04, 2011.  

