+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-05-02, 16:14:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/m8b3TWlwbCA)]]



  

Spoonerism – Indian Style



I am writing this in response to Shri Naresh Keerti’s suggestion to write on the subject in Sanskrit language. I would extend the same to Indian languages.



This is from my very old writing.



Every mango season Mr.Khushwant Singh used to write about

the various types of mangoes, the places where they are grown

and their names like Dusseri, Langda, Malgoa, Alphanso, Banganapali and so on.



Once I wrote to him about the etymology of Mango and he published the whole without any addition or deletion. Of course he gets paid for his articles per inch column even on those contributed by others. But I do not grudge the same for he makes his living like that.



Botanically the mango species originated in the Himalayan ranges

on the Indo-Burma border. The trees are phenomenally very high

and huge. Only when they became grafted they used to bear fruit

when the trees small in height. They are called Sahakaara in Sanskrit.



The Sanskrit word for Mango is aamraphala. In Hindi it got shortened as aamphal. When its cultivation moved South it got the Tamil name as aam-kaay. Following the spoonerism example it got changed as maam-kaay.



This discovery dawned on me when I was on my morning walk and remembered my son as a child asking his mother for pachaathi instead of chapaathi.



This maankaay in Tamil became maanga when in reached Kerala.



For the Porugese when they landed in Calicut (now Kozhikode), it

was an entirely new fruit. They used the same word manga in their language to identify this fruit.



In those days there were no typewriters. So one Portugese wrote to his
English fried about the discovery of a new fruit called manga. The English fried read it as mango since many other new world items found by the Portugese end with o as in tobacco, potato, avocado, tomato and so on.



Here I end my piece for others to comment.





----------------------------------

P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

