+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2018-03-01, 23:58:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Me7kKSCphdg)]]



Kal vaitha vaaram exam for vedic pundits - What is it actually?

  

It is explained by Brahmasri.Sathanur Ganapadigal here:

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XsZn5l_joP4>  

  

Please hear from 07:50 to 19:00 on the subject.

  

Some common & strict rules:

  

1\) It would happen for a week ( vaaram) continuously in front of renowned scholars

2\) This exam was prevalent in Kerala & later came to TN

3\) This exam is for no. of padams in yajur veda basically - Veda pada paada pariksha

4\) There are 7 kandams & it has 2198 panchasats ( 2198 panchaatis) - Each panchashat has 50 padams.

5\) All the 7 kaandams will be divided into 4. Each part is called a paada( quarter)

Each part will have 11 adhyayams

6\) 4 stones will be kept to represent these 4 paadams ( 4 quarters)

7\) The person attending the exam will select a stone, that will be reckoned as one.

8\) Other person will then touch a stone. If he touches the same stone then it is from 1st paadam, next means 2nd paadam

9\) Then 11 stones will be kept . Again the person attending the exam will select a stone, that will be reckoned as one.

10) Other person will then touch a stone. If he touches the same stone then it is from 1st adhyayam, next means 2nd adhyaayam etc

11) Then according to the adhyaayam stones will be kept depending on the paras present in that adhyaayam, few adhyaayas will have 28, some will have 8, some will have 11 etc

12) Then a stone will be touched by other person.

13) Exam now starts. It should begin & end with OM

14) Recital has to commence from that particular para by heart. While reciting following are the rules:

a) Compound word should be told without taking a breath in between eg., pasupatih - pasu patiriti pasu - patih ...

b) No breath pause allowed between paras

c) he should stop automatically after telling 250 padams with OM

Not one padam extra or one less

d) He should not repeat again in between

e) He should not stop /pause in between

f) He should not get stuck in between

g) No mistake in svaras, akshara or change of words is allowed.

15)Like this he has to pass the exam continuously for 7 days.

  

Then he will be declared as passed.

  

Extremely difficult to pass this exam.

  

In the video, Brahmasri. Sathanur Ghanapadigal himself explains I exceeded about 15 padams on one day, which scholars did not accept. Then Mahaperiyavaa recommended to them quoting in normal maths exam if a pupil answers 12 questions instead of 10 questions will you not give more marks..

Scholars did not relent and told mahaperiyavaa this is not maths exam. This is a vedic exam..

Such is the strictness with which veda samrakshanam was done those days.

  

Then mahaperiyavaa out of his own compassion gave a gold coin to him considering the 300 namaskarams done by Sathanur on the previous days during rudra kramarchanai & he attending the exam with his swollen hands.

  

