+++
title = "000 Nagaraj Paturi"

+++
[[Nagaraj Paturi	2018-12-20, 23:49:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/zySELTP4Ymo)]]



Department of Computer Science and Automation  
Department Seminar  
  
Speaker : Prof. Kisor Kumar Chakrabarti  
President, Institute for Cross Cultural Studies and Academic Exchange, NC, USA  
  
Title : Problem of Induction: East and West  
  
Date : Friday, January 04, 2019  
  
Time : 4:00 PM  
  
Venue : CSA Faculty Room, (Room No. 101, Ground floor), IISc, BLR.  
  
  
Abstract  
  
Hume argued that any induction presupposes uniformity of nature that itself is an induction and hence induction is circular. More recently Goodman has argued that the same inductive evidence yields conflicting predictions. I shall try to show that various contemporary attempts to solve these problems are unsatisfactory. I shall also try to show that these problems were anticipated in Indian philosophies and that a Nyaya solution has more promise.  
  
Biography of the speaker  
  
Kisor Kumar Chakrabarti is a former Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and  
Religious Studies of the Davis and Elkins College (where he has served as the  
Vice President of Academic Affairs), the Bethany College, the Ferrum College,  
etc. He has also taught at the University of California at Berkeley, the  
University of Maine at Orono and the University of Calcutta. He has held  
Fellowships at the University of Oxford, Institute for Advanced Study,  
Princeton, the Indian Institute for Advanced Study, Shimla, the University of  
Pittsburgh and the Australian National University and received numerous honors  
and awards. He is fluent in Sanskrit, studied for decades original Sanskrit  
works of Indian Philosophical Schools under the guidance of eminent pundits and  
is a leading authority on Indian and comparative philosophy and religion. He is  
also devoted to the study of Greek philosophy from original Greek sources and  
has taught modern and contemporary philosophy in India and the USA for more than  
forty years and published substantially on all these areas. He has published  
eighty eight research papers and articles mainly dealing with topics of  
comparative logic, epistemology, metaphysics and ethics. He has also authored  
The Logic of Gotama (University of Hawaii Press, 1978), Definition and Induction  
(University of Hawaii Press, 1995), Classical Indian Philosophy of Mind (State  
University of New York Press, 1999) and Classical Indian Philosophy of Induction  
(Rowman and Littlefield, 2010).  
  
Host Faculty : Prof. K Gopinath  
  
ALL ARE WELCOME  

