+++
title = "003 G.L.N.Murthy"

+++
[[G.L.N.Murthy	2013-06-23, 17:48:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/QsqWKAFJixc)]]



Dear scholars, The word KoTANUKOTI is used in Telugu as "Kotanugotulu"(Kotulu+kotulu)(Telugu).Meaning innumerable.The Telugu dictionary Sabdaratnakaram recognises it as a misrama(Sanskrit and Telugu word,Vishesya,and Bahuvachana .A Prayoga of this plural word is taken form Vikramarka charitram,5th chapter,in Telugu by Jakkana.I hope this will throw some light on the subject.Regards-Ganti Lakshminarayana Murthy(Bangalore).



**GLN**  

**From:** Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** "[sams...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[sams...@googlegroups.com]()\>  

**Sent:** Sunday, June 23, 2013 5:06 PM  
**Subject:** Re: \[Samskrita\] 'Kotanukoti'  

  

I don't think the first is a Sanskrit usage and could not be found. It seems to be imitation of th second and used in Malayalam only.

On Sun, Jun 23, 2013 at 8:33 AM, shankara \<[shanka...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> >  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:14pt"> >
> 
> > Pranams to all, >
> 
> >  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:18.66px;font-style:normal;background-color:transparent"> >
>   
> > 
> >  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:18.66px;font-style:normal;background-color:transparent"> >
> I request Sanskrit scholars to explain if the phrase 'कोटानुकोटिः" is > right as per Sanskrit grammar. I could not find this word in Sanskrit > dictionaries of Apte & MW. It is widely used in Malayalam, Tamil and, > I think, in Telugu too to mean 'very large quantity' like > लक्षोपलक्षम्.  
> > 
> >  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:18.66px;font-style:normal;background-color:transparent"> >
>   
> > 
> >  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:18.66px;font-style:normal;background-color:transparent"> >
> Is कोटानुकोटिः used in Sanskrit? If so, how is the Samasa formed?  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > regards  
> shankara >
> 
> > 
> > 

> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  

> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [mailto:samskrita%2Bunsu...@googlegroups.com]().

>   
> To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
>   
>   

  
  

  

--  

*Dr. Hari Narayana Bhat B.R. M.A., Ph.D.,  
***Research Scholar(Retd),  
**

Ecole française d'Extrême-OrientCentre de Pondichéry

16 & 19, Rue Dumas



