+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2016-01-14, 19:36:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/kkkAcWSPNi8)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar

  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Makara Sankranti (Pongal)** and the start of **Uttarayana** is just a couple of days away, I am happy to share a beautiful hymn on **Lord Surya** by **Lord Shiva** and **Lord Vishnu** taken from **Bhavishya Puranam, Saptami Kalpam, Chapter 153**. These two hymns appear together in the same chapter and I have omitted a few lines in between these two hymns which are not stotra related.

  

As we have seen before in the previous years, **Samba Purana** and **Saptami Kalpa in Bhavishya Purana** are devoted entirely to **Lord Surya** although there are many Surya stotras in almost all puranas. These two puranas extol Lord Surya as the Supreme-being and all other forms including the Trinity (Brahma/Vishnu/Shiva) are said to emanate fromSurya.

  

As we can see in the attached stotra itself, **Lord Vishnu** mentions this unequivocally (***tvatta* eva samutpannam sadevAsura mAnuSham \| brahmA cA.ahaM rudrashca samutpannA jagatpate \|\| *Meaning : ... Lord Surya! From you emanated everything including Devas, Asuras and Human beings. Brahma, myself and Rudra originated from you ...***). In fact Lord Vishnu prays him as **Lord Shanmukha**, **Rudra**, and **Navagrahas**, **Digpalakas**, etc. And this is exactly the same message **Sage Agastya** gives in the famous **Aditya Hrudayam** in **Ramayana** to **Lord Rama**.

  

We have also seen that **Sage Vyasa** claims that there is none beyond Lord Surya and there is no greater refuge than Lord Surya (**nAsti sUrya-samo devo nAsti sUrya-samA gatiH**) in Bhavishya Puranam. Such superlatives are given for almost every deity form and one can only pity the childishness/immaturity of those who feel elitistic and proud of owing to allegiance of one such form! It has established beyond doubt in puranas that one who keeps looking for differences in vital statistics of deity forms live in delusion and invite sojourn in hell.

  

May I wish a very Happy Pongal and festivities to all you! May We Pray To Lord Surya on this auspicious day!

  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XVlhwLThFOEFLaUtsS1dkUVpFWTN0TVBCbldr/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XMXRmeDVlMkY4bThmb2d6T0NTR0NrT1NBWW1Z/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XaDJhbEQxX0g2UFVnckIxQUtpY25hMjJ1NXhB/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5Xc09yTndYSm5vYm9vMGt3Yk9kb0wyamhJVEYw/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5Xb1JpWEZydUltMnptREE5VS0zS2ZxcF9MS1pV/view?usp=sharing)  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XR3VQRm1HbzZQdlhIejJPNUhQWEphblVOdHJz/view?usp=sharing)  

