+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2018-08-30, 18:43:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/xm1Yozz3IGk)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. It has been quite a while since my last posting and apologies. Looks like the trend is likely to continue for a while, while I will try my best to increase the frequency.

  

As Sri Krishna Jayanti falls on 01-Sep-2018 (Sat) or (02-Sep-2018 as per Vaikanasa Tradition), I am delighted to share a very long chapter from **Brahma Vaivarta Puranam, Krishna Janma Khanda, Chapter 8** in which **Lord Narayana elaborates the procedure to observe Janmashtami Vratam, Puja Vidhi**, benefits of observing this, sins one will accrue for not observing Janmashtami as well as a set of Do's and Don'ts. I have tried my best to summarize this in the 2-page preface.

  

The key take away is the immense benefit of observing **Krishna Janmashtami Vrat** - believe me, it is not for faint-hearted, if one has to observe verbatim. The utmost important take away is the sin one will accrue if one eats on a Janmashtami day and does not observe vratam- one will be destined to suffer in Kalasutra hell for a long time followed by hundreds of births as other organisms such as worms before getting human birth. Most scary account I have come across so far. With Lord's blessings, may we try our best to observe this Vratam - as Lord Narayana promises to write off all sins accrued in the past crore births if observed correctly. Can anyone ask for more?

  

It is also interesting to note that the procedure is orthogonal to the silly sectarian/intra-faith rivalry views we see today from the intellectual illiterates - Lord Narayana gives a long list of deity forms to be invoked and offered utmost devotion although the Puja is to Lord Krishna. But then, when did we ever learn what we were asked to imbibe by our scriptures?

  

May we worship Lord Krishna with utmost devotion on Krishna Janmashtami day. Given the recent happenings in the Hindu-fold, it is nothing short of existential crisis for Sanatana Dharma. It is imperative that Lord Krishna fulfils his promise '**yadA yadA hi dharmasya glAnir bhavati bhArata** … " and at the same time bestows wisdom to all within the Sanatana Dharma-fold, as we see lot of knowledge but very little practical/collective wisdom to face and set right the challenges faced by Sanatana Dharma.

  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XWDhIR3JSdThONm9Hbjh0Q2UwSXhhcW45eVBr/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XRk5mOERRWXdOMWRhd3ViVFpObDVxM1pKT2FR/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XNjYyY3dHbzVfWERTa2lkdHJCUm5jWFVobVJj/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTS1ucFh6Q3U5N09sMGRoaXdESncxd3hHTDhv/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XX0FPZzU5b2pfMUpNZEVoalhWZlBtcTRxTC1Z/view?usp=sharing)  

[Gujarati](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XVEowQXpMQ0FBUDFfVmVLYTA3LU9hMlZXWDF3/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XU2xlN3pmams1TDNfU0dRbWpVS0ZaRklwOXZv/view?usp=sharing)  

  

