+++
title = "010 धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>"

+++
[[धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>	2011-05-20, 22:24:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/l85fCym6klM)]]



I too would like to know the basis of this assertion by PKR. That the  
metathesis took place in prAkRta languages is probably documented in  
one of the prAkRta grammars.  
e.g. In the following google-book  
<http://books.google.com/books?id=UoV5Dz20oo4C&pg=PA97&lpg=PA97&dq=prakrita++mh+metathesis&source=bl&ots=vHWe9nqcTq&sig=fEoiFO6IVuUeM-jxNk1Hd9GpM7Y&hl=en&ei=-5vWTYOSF8Tu0gH67q3SBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CBwQ6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q&f=false>  
please see section 5.2.3.7 on page 97  
  
In my native language of modern Marathi, which is a post-prAkRta  
language, I ALWAYS use the metathetic pronunciation bram-ha and vanhii  
(note the long final vowel, as per Marathi sandhi rules). Just because  
those happen to be the correct pronunciations in Marathi does not make  
them the correct pronunciations in the spoken saMskRta of \~250 BC. Of  
course, it is OK to pronounce bram-ha while reciting shlokas or  
mantras for home use - that is the family's home-use dialect, and any  
family or individual has every right to have their own dialect of  
saMskRta. Though that is right, it does not make them the correct  
pronunciations in the spoken saMskRta of \~250 BC.  
  
The observations recorded by pANini are "he mapare vA (mo.anusvAraH)"  
and "(he) napare (mo) naH". They show to me quite clearly that in his  
time pANini heard the "h" sound before the "m" sound (or the "h"  
before the "n" sound, respectively).  
  
Since some of the prAtishAkhyas are prior to pANini, I would be glad  
to have evidence from those too. pANini was most familiar with  
saMskRta as spoken in the west of India, and pata\~njali was from the  
central parts. They may have missed specialties of the speech patterns  
from the east or south.  
  
Dhananjay  
  
On May 20, 9:38am, "hnbhat B.R." \<[hnbha...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> 2011/5/20 P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peeka...@yahoo.com]()\>  



