+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2010-10-07, 12:23:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/v1cPLaLkPI8)]]



Courtesy: Ms.R.Jyoti  
=============  
  
Dear Friends,  
  
Samskrita Bharati is a non-profit organisation for past 3 decades, engaged in  
promoting Samskritam (Sanskrit) as a spoken language.  
  
Samskrita Bharati is conducting Free 10  
days Spoken Samskritam evening Classes from 5-14 October 2010.  
  
Highlights of the Course:  
  
- Course Structure perfected over many decades  
- Dispels initial apprehension as a difficult language  
- Right opportunity for beginners  
- Get into speaking an intersting language even if you know a bit.  
- Anybody who is above 10 years of age irrespective of Caste, Creed and  
Religion can attend.  
- Unique Interactive approach for teaching conversational Samskrit  
- In just 10 days you will be able to speak in Samskrit  
- Prior knowledge of spoken or written skills not necessary  
  
In Ulsoor area classes will be conducted in Jeevan Bhima Nagar, Indira Nagar,  
DRDO Phase II, Kaggadaspura, Sadanand Nagar and Ulsoor. The classes will be  
generally in the evenings for 2 hours. Please contact to get the timings for a  
particular class.  
  
This short course can also be used as a stepping stone for further explorations  
into the vast world of Samskrit. At the end of the course you will also learn  
about other courses that you could take, at a place closer to your home, to  
continue to dwell deep into this wonderful language.  
  
Interested, please send a mail with your name, centre at which you would like to  
attend the course and your contact details to [sb.u...@gmail.com](http://f1mail.rediff.com/prism/writemail?mode=mail_to_individual&email=sb.ulsoor%40gmail.com&els=815a5ec3da8c35f824f93b17782ad605) to register  
or contact following persons:  
  
Ulsoor / Indira Nagar -  
Jyothi: 9341260903 - Evening 06:30 pm to 8:30 pm  
Jeevan Bhima Nagar -  
Jyothi: 9341321308 - Evening 06:30 pm to 8:30 pm  
DRDO Phase II Sriram: 9449123417  
- Morning 10:00 am to 12:00 noon  
Kaggadaspura -  
Jyothi: 9341260903 - Morning and Evening - 2  
classes  
Sadanandnagar  
Harnath 9242789504 - Morning and Evening - 2 classes  
L.B.Shastri Nagar  
Raman 9916989151 - Evening 06:30 pm to 8:30 pm  
  
Please make use of this great opportunity to learn and converse in this divine  
language .  
  
With Warm Regards  
  
Raja Ramamoorthy  
Samskrita Bharati  
  
knr  
  
--  
If God brings you to it, He will bring you through it.  
Happy moments, praise God.  
Difficult moments, seek God.  
Quiet moments, worship God.  
Painful moments, trust God.  
  
 Every moment, thank God  

