+++
title = "013 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-09-07, 20:36:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/8fXtNxONKZE)]]



Srikant,  
  
This is my 2-paise worth view on the question you posed, derived from  
my own experience. You say your motivation behind the study of  
Samskrit is 'to comprehend and enjoy Kavyas, Itihasa - Puranas, write  
and converse in Samskrit flawlessly.'  
  
'write and converse in Samskrit flawlessly' you may do if you are  
really keen on that - and even that can come, at least at a not-too-  
erudite level, with a little practice. But that is not in any way  
connected with your other objective: 'comprehend and enjoy Kavyas,  
Itihasa - Puranas'. If between these two, you are really aiming for  
the latter as an immediate goal, so much school grammar as is  
prescribed in high school textbooks, is quite enough. You do not need  
to master intricacies of Panini for that. Look at any standard  
textbook - like Bhandarkar's classic school text-book - as a model.  
Bhandarkar just explains the basic grammar, enough to understand any  
text in Classical Sanskrit.  
  
Again, please do not 'memorize' even that grammar. Certainly go  
through it diligently as often as you can but do not feel daunted by  
it. Start reading simple texts, with the help of a good translation.  
You will soon realize that you are getting a hang of the language.  
(Here, those with an Indian vernacular as a mother tongue have an  
advantage in that they are already familiar with several Sanskrit  
words, through their mother tongues.) Do not spend too much time in  
'memorizing' rules of Sandhi and Samaasa - they are really intuitive  
in nature.  
  
I cannot overstress the importance of reading and understanding what  
you read (with the help, if needed, of a good translation) as the best  
way to feel a level of comfort and familiarity with the language so  
that you do not feel daunted by it.  
  
You also have the aim of being able to converse and write in  
Sanskrit. This is your individual choice. I, for one, have never  
felt the need or the practical use thereof, perhaps because I am not a  
professional or an academic Sanskritist but just an amateur, who is  
happy understanding what he reads.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar. Toronto, September 07, 2011.

