+++
title = "002 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-04-01, 05:30:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/0BpahbRGtv8)]]



Chitsukha,  
  
You quote from Macaulay:  

  
\< We must at present do our best to form a class who may be  
interpreters between us and the millions whom we govern, --a class  
of  
persons Indian in blood and colour, but English in tastes, in  

opinions, in morals and in intellect. \> (Your paragraph 2 above)  
  
Is it intentional that you have extracted only what you suits your  
intent, out of the very paragraph you are quoting from or are you just  
careless? I do not know which is worse. The same paragraph, taken in  
whole from the same source that you indicated, reads as under:  
(Compare both quotations to see the trick)  
  
Macaulay's paragraph 34 in the Minute:  
  
\<In one point I fully agree with the gentlemen to whose general views  
I am opposed. I feel with them that it is impossible for us, with our  
limited means, to attempt to educate the body of the people. We must  

at present do our best to form a class who may be interpreters between  
us and the millions whom we govern, --a class of persons Indian in  
blood and colour, but English in tastes, in opinions, in morals and in  

intellect. To that class we may leave it to refine the vernacular  
dialects of the country, to enrich those dialects with terms of  
science borrowed from the Western nomenclature, and to render them by  
degrees fit vehicles for conveying knowledge to the great mass of the  
population.>  
  
Read in full, Macaulay does not appear to the villain that you paint  
him to be. He is, in fact, desirous that the few trained in the new  
sciences by the British, will put that knowledge to enrich vernaculars  
and convey knowledge to the great mass of the population. What do you  
fine objectionable here? Exactly this happened in due course and new  
schools, colleges and universities opened in all parts of India from  
1840s onwards, benefiting the masses by making available to them the  
new knowledge. I feel certain that you too received your education  
through one such institute or institutes. If so, why be miserly in  
giving credit where it is due?  
  
Another quibble, important in its own way. On February 2, 1835  
Macaulay could not have delivered any speech before the British  
Parliament as you seem to believe, because, on that date, and for  
several months before that, he was in India, 6000 miles away. The very  
source that you extract from correctly identifies it as the Minute and  
Minutes are not delivered before Parliaments. This quibble is  
important because, as pointed out by me in an earlier posting, a  
bogus, manufactured, non-existant and mischievous ' Speech by Lord  
(sic) Macaulay before the British Parliament dated February 2, 1835'  
has gone viral on the internet in which Macaulay is made to look like  
a Machiavelli, hell-bent on destroying India's soul, its languages and  
its culture for imperialistic motives. A hidden agenda is clearly at  
work here but the careless, the credulous and the ones keen to believe  
fall prey to it.  
  
Sorry for the somewhat strong language but please be careful before  
rushing in. No one forces you to write anything unless you are sure  
of your facts.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, March 31, 2011.

