+++
title = "001 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-02-10, 15:59:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/X-YpWgqrJWw)]]



Dear Brahmasri Narayanaswamy Subramanian,

  

I would request you to read again the shloka attributed to Uddanda Sastri.

  

He has said Bhaashaakavi-nivahoyam. Here Bhasha means Malayalam. It does not refer to Sanskrit. Though BrahmasriNarayana Bhattathiri and Sankaracharya are Kerala Brahmins, their compositions are in Sanskrit and are in proper vrittams or meters having specific framing rules and names.

  

I would request you to come back to this forum after reading again and understanding Uddanda Sastri's comments on Bhaashaakavi.

  

With best regards,

  

----------------------------------

P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Narayanaswamy Subramanian \<[s_naray...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**To:** [iye...@yahoogroups.com](); [4bra...@yahoogroups.com]()  
**Cc:** [peek...@yahoo.com](); [samskri...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Thu, 10 February, 2011 1:17:07 PM  
**Subject:** Re: \[4brahmins\] Uddanda Sastri - 2  
  
Dear fellow-Iyers and fellow-Brahmanas  
  
If what Sri P K Ramakrishnan reports is correct -- that Uddanda Sastri said publicly that Malayaalam poets, as a genre, are incapable of composing in "proper meters" (whatever that means), and "lose their display" in front of learned persons (like his own self?) -- then, the irresistible conclusion must be that Uddanda is talking total nonsense (or, not talking through his mouth).  
  
Uddanda might well be full of his own self-importance and pomposity.
Plus,have an exaggerated opinion about his superiority as a self-styled "learned person". In this, he is not alone, as our website testifies.
In any event, it does not excuse his sneering.  
  
Such drivel must be stopped. Else, it only lowers him in the estimation of other aspiring "learnedpersons". Perhaps he (and his modern-day admirers?) should be reminded of the legend of Daedalus -- you fly near the Sun, thinking you are supreme, then your wings get burnt and you topple down dead, back to the Earth.  
  
Uddanda obviously either has not read, ordoes not have the faculty to understand, much less appreciate, works like the NAARAAYANEEYAM of Brahmashri Naarayana Bhattathiri of Kerala. Other supreme texts can be added to this list, not least the wondrous works of Bhagavaan Sri Aadi Shankaraachaaryar Bhagavathpaada, alsoof Kerala. And the lofty compositions of his sishyaas.  
  
S Narayanaswamy Iyer  
  
--- On Wed, 2/9/11, P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:

  
  
From: P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\>  
Subject: \[4brahmins\] Uddanda Sastri - 2  
To: "[4bra...@yahoogroups.com]()" \<[4bra...@yahoogroups.com]()\>, "Iyer123group" \<[iyer12...@yahoo.com]()\>, "samskrita" \<[sams...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Date: Wednesday, February 9, 2011, 7:39 PM  
  
Uddanda Sastri had a very low opinion about the Poets of Malayalam language.  
  
Here is what he says.  
  
भाषाकविनिवहोयं  
दोषाकरवत् विभाति गगनतले /  
प्रायेण वृत्तहीनः  
सूर्यालोके विनष्टगोप्रसर://  
  
This multitude of Malayalam Poets  
shine like the moon in the sky.  
Mostly not round (not composing in proper meters)  
losing brightness (losing their verbal display)  
at the approach of the sun (in front of learned people).  

P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  
  
  
  

  

