+++
title = "003 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-02-11, 09:09:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/X-YpWgqrJWw)]]



One has to find the meaning of the word bhaashaa with reference to the circumstances in which it is

written. During Uddanda Sastris time, he would have been acquainted with only Tamil, Malayalam and

Sanskrit. Can you quote some Malayalam poetry and name its vrittam. There are some Malayalam

compositions using Sanskrit vrittams. When Uddanda Sastri says "praayena vrittahiinah) he excludes

Malayalam written in Sanskrit vrittams.

  

Now we cannot reach Uddanda Sastri for getting his clarification. I can only quote a saying -

  

kavih karoti kaavyaani,

rasam jaananti panditaah //

  

कवि: करोति काव्यानि

रसं जानन्ति पण्डिता: /

If you insist on your interpretation, you may do so. I do not agree.

-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Narayanaswamy Subramanian \<[s_naray...@yahoo.com]()\>  

**To:** [iye...@yahoogroups.com](); [4Bra...@yahoogroups.com](); P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**Cc:** [sams...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Thu, 10 February, 2011 10:01:02 PM

  
**Subject:** Re: \[4brahmins\] Uddanda Sastri - 2  

  
Dear Sri P K Ramakrishnan  
  
Thanks for your attempt to defend your interpretation.  
  
I am not unaware that "bhaashaa"means "language", "tongue", "speech" or "talk". It can include spoken Samskrutham or any Prakrita dialect.  
  
Your arrowing all Malayaalam poets for demeaning treatment, and still maintaining that all poetry written in the Malayalam language is not only far inferior (to Uddanda's?), but just vapourise at the rising of the sun -- is a misinterpretation, and uncalled for.  
  
In any event, what motivates you tosingle out Malayaalam for this apparently unprovoked attack? Why not Hindi, Gujarathi, Bengali, Singhalese, Kannadam, Telegu, Tamil? Has Uddanda composed impeccablepoetry in all these languages, plus Malayaalam? Can you quote examples?  
  
Thanks.  
  
S Narayanaswamy Iyer

  
  
--- On Thu, 2/10/11, P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  
  
From: P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: \[4brahmins\] Uddanda Sastri - 2  
To: "Narayanaswamy Subramanian" \<[s_naray...@yahoo.com]()\>  
Cc: "[4bra...@yahoogroups.com]()" \<[4bra...@yahoogroups.com]()\>, "iyer123" \<[iye...@yahoogroups.com]()\>, "samskrita" \<[sams...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Date: Thursday, February 10, 2011, 2:29 AM  
  
Dear Brahmasri Narayanaswamy Subramanian,  
  
I would request you to read again the shloka attributed to Uddanda Sastri.  
  
He has said Bhaashaakavi-nivahoyam. Here Bhasha means Malayalam. It does not refer to Sanskrit. Though BrahmasriNarayana Bhattathiri and Sankaracharya are Kerala Brahmins, their compositions are in Sanskrit and are in proper vrittams or meters having specific framing rules and names  
  

I would request you to come back to this forum after reading again and understanding Uddanda Sastri's comments on Bhaashaakavi.  
  
With best regards,  
  

P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  
  
  
  

  

