+++
title = "014 q885"

+++
[[q885	2018-12-22, 05:38:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Ew7CVmOnacU)]]



I realize that I have made a fool of myself.

  

I have revealed the depths of my ignorance. It was bound to happen sooner or later.

  

I immediately recognized thatmanōḥ inmanōr apatyam was genitive (probably because I learned a Pāṇini sūtra that used that form), so you would think that I would have recognized that dur-buddhēḥ followed the same basic form (guṇa of the final sound plus s/visarga). But I didn't. Of course if I had the forms memorized I wouldn't have needed to rely on analogy.

  

I want to thank everyone who posted links toward understanding Bhagavad-Gītā. I liked <http://www.bhagavadgita.eu/en/> especially.  

  

Much more than Bhagavad-Gītā, I would be interested in learning Sanskrit throughAśōkāvadānam (the story of Dēvānāmpriyaḥ Priyadarśī Rājā). If anyone knows an English translation, I would be most appreciative.

  

But all of that will be for a much later date. I will commit myself to memorizing forms. It took me forever to memorize my multiplication tables as a child, but if I can memorize the Heart Sūtra, I can memorize declension tables. That will be my entire focus regarding Saṁskr̥ta for the foreseeable future.  

  

Don't worry. I shan't post anything more in this forum for now. I will stick with beginners' sites. It's probably best that I don't consider "advanced" topics before mastering the basics anyways.

  

Thank you to you all.



