+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2015-10-19, 17:53:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/eRpLEyQcosQ)]]



Courtesy:Smt.Sunita

  

Please read the forwarded mail below and visit the following link to  
listen to the audio.  
  
<http://amaravaani.org/>  
  
sanskrit music album and website of new sanskrit songs with Padmashree  
Mohanlal"s sanskrit introduction will be launched tomorrow at Delhi  
Mavalkar Auditorium at 5 pm.  
  
\*ABOUT THE PROJECT:\*  
  
A few determined men, smitten by Saṁskṛtam, have embarked on a brave  
journey to popularise the language under the banner of Saṁskṛta Bhāratī, a  
voluntary organisation which is already rendering invaluable contribution  
in this field (<http://www.samskritabharati.org/>).  
  
You would be happy to know that thanks to the effort, there are millions in  
the world who have actually started conversing in Deva Bhāshā on day-to-day  
basis! This includes many villages in India, where the entire populace  
speaks only in Saṁskṛtam, not to mention numerous Indophiles in the Western  
world and millions of Indians living abroad, who took to the language to  
come back to the cultural heritage of India!  
  
This has been made possible by a simple yet revolutionary method of  
teaching Saṁskṛtam called the ‘Direct Method’. In this method, right from  
day one, the trainees are taught in Saṁskṛtam alone and not through any  
intermediate language.  
  
There is a general perception that poetry in Saṁskṛtam is mainly about shlok  
ās/ chants and religious verses. The fact is, there exists a segment of  
poetry in Saṁskṛtam which is simple in nature and dwells on secular topics  
like Nature, motherhood, patriotism and the like. The objective of this  
music-project is to reveal this aspect, this treasure-trove of ideas/ poems  
to the public and thus popularise the language even further.  
  
Penned by distinguished scholars of Saṁskṛtam and set to soulful music that  
covers folk, Tibetan, traditional Carnātic and Hindustāni styles, the songs  
are sure to find a resonance with the public!  
  
The project-team has specially focused on the quality of production.  
Distinguished singers like Shankar Mahadevan, Sujatha, Madhu Balakrishnan,  
Harini, Kalpana Raghavendar, Aruna Sairam, Ramesh Vinayakam, Visalakshi  
Shankar & Karthika lend their voices to the songs.  
  
It is indeed heartening to note that renowned actor Padmas’ree Mohanlal has  
given the introduction to the project and songs in Saṁskṛtam.  
  
To summarise, this project is an endeavour by like-minded people who are  
passionate about giving back to the world the rich cultural heritage of Saṁ  
skṛtam  
  
\*ABOUT SAMSKRITA BHARATI:\*  
  
\*<http://samskritabharati.in/about-us-2/about-samskrita-bharati>  
\<<http://samskritabharati.in/about-us-2/about-samskrita-bharati>\>\*  
  
\*Vision/ Mission of samskrita bharati:\*  
  
\*<http://samskritabharati.in/about-us-2/mission>  
\<<http://samskritabharati.in/about-us-2/mission>\>\*  
  
\*Terms of Website Use: (for reference)\*  
  
\*<http://samskritabharati.in/about-us-2/terms>  
\<<http://samskritabharati.in/about-us-2/terms>\>\*  
  

