+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2016-10-26, 20:40:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/r098Z2CED1Q)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Deepavali** festival falls on 29-Oct-2016 (Saturday), may I extend my heartiest greetings for Deepavali festivities. May The Festival of Light bestow you and your family with joy, success, health and rekindled Dharmic pursuits!

  

In this connection, I am glad to attach a rare and sweet prayer on **Lord Krishna by Lord Mahadeva** as told to **Bhrigu** and taken from **Brahma Vaivarta Puranam, Ganapati Khanda and Chapter 32**. The brief **Phalashruti** at the end the mentions one who recites this hymn thrice a day becomes as venerable as **Lord Vishnu** Himself while getting health, wealth, wisdom, progeny, etc. One can understand the sacredness of this hymn thus.

  

At the beginning of the chapter **Lord Mahadeva** also introduces a rare mantra on **Lord Krishna** ***OM shrIM namaH shrIkRRiShNAya paripUrNatamAya svAhA*** which he mentions equivalent to Kalpa Vriksha and one attains **Siddhi** of this mantra by chanting this 5 lakh times.

  

The essence of this prayer is that **Lord Krishna** is indeed the **Parama Purusha** and the quintessence of this cosmos. The hymn goes on to how Lord Krishna himself presents himself in various forms/creations. The message is identical with Lord Krishna own words in **Chapter 10 of Bhagavad Gita** where he describes how He manifests in different ways. It is beautifully explained thus **svayaM mAyA svayaM mAyI** to elucidate the point**.**

  

As we have seen over the years, this is not a source of confusion or deitydifferentiation although our small and perverted minds always try to do one-upmanship over inappropriate things.

  

We have also seen that the same message is repeated for every deity form. A few examples which we have seen in the past are : the **Devi Stuti from Kurma Purana** I sent in my previous post where Goddess Devi is claimed to be the Parama Purusha while Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva are but forms of her. If we look at the **Vishnu Sahasranama from Garuda Purana** or **Shiva Stuti by Vishnu in Linga Purana or Vendantasara Garbha Stuti by Vishnu in Tejinivana Mahatmya or Gayatri Stotram by Lord Vishnu in Devi Bhagavatam or Sarasvati Stuti in Markandeya Puranam** - the message is identical. The one and only Mula Prakriti presents itself in different forms and different names. It is the foolish who cook up any difference among the forms.

  

May Lord Krishna Bless Us All With True and resplendent knowledge!

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XdWc5LVhqRVJBVk84MVFCRTM1UHVsSnNFMkNv/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XRkhRYTlzak9SWUhDckR4cVZ3dV8tTkpzSEhR/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XeVJxSHYweXFWYWZ3UTJ3NGRCWnc5U3BONlVZ/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XRHhwdzROMXNMb3FlOGdIMFN1UFpONjB5ZnV3/view?usp=sharing)  

[kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XYVo2SFUzZjhoQUtyLUJGU0VFNWJ5S0ZzMm5j/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XWFpTXzF1Nm9XYlh1SWE2amo0N19Wbl91RTlV/view?usp=sharing)  

  

