+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2014-08-04, 10:15:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/R4xi_pTVIG0)]]



Courtesy: Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar

  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Gayatri Japa** falls on **11-Aug-2014 (Monday),** I am happy to share a rare hymn on **Vedamata Gayatri** taken from **Padma Purana, Srishti Khanda, Chapter 52** as sung by **Lord Rudra**. The brief **phalashruti** mentions that the chanter will get all the rightful wealth and goals fulfilled. For those who need more stutis on Gayatri, please refer to my ebook published ten years ago <http://www.ambaa.org/pdf/gAyatrI_Worship.pdf>.

  

As per Vedas, there is nothing beyond Gayatri (**gAyatryAH paraM nAsti**). In **Brahma Vaivarta Puranam**, **Lord Krishna** prays to **Mata Savitri** as:

  

**nArAyaNa-svarUpe ca nArAyaNI sanAtanI \| nArAyaNAd samudbhUte prasannA bhava sundarI \|\|** (Meaning : Oh SavitrI! You are indeed the embodiment of Lord Narayana and arose out of Lord Narayana! Please be pleased with my prayer)

  

Gayatri worship is the basic and essential duty for Dvijas. Worship of other forms is purely optional as **Lord Narayana** Himself declares in **Devi Bhagavatam** - A **Dvija** is first a **Shakta** (worshipper of **Shakti** through Gayatri worship) and Gayatri worship is mandatory; Worship of Vishnu/Rudra/other formscomes only after that and it is not mandatory. **Worship of other forms without Gayatri worship is utterly useless**.

  

**I have mentioned this many times before and at the risk of being a broken gramophone player, let me make this requestonce again**. I have been searching for **Savitri Ashtottaram** and **Savitri Sahasranama** for more than 10 years now. I know that they are available in manuscript form in **Adyar Library in Chennai** but I have not been able to get a scanned copy or access to the library in spite of trying through various sources/contacts. I even wrote to them but to no avail.

  

As a tidbit, I heard from someone that **Pudukkottai Judge Swamigal of Bhuvaneswari Peetham** (who lived about a century ago) used to chant **Gayatri/Savitri/Saraswati Sahasranamas** during the three Sandhyas and **Lalitha Sahasranama** in the night. I have personally spoken to **Swamy Sri Omkarananada** (who is the current head ofSri Bhuvaneshwari Peetham)about **Savitri Sahasranama** but He confirmed that there is no trace of it in the Ashram.

  

I also understand that there is yet another **Gayatri Sahasranama** in **Vishnu Yamala** (not sure whether it is a repetition of the other two Sahasranamas which I included in the above ebook or a new one). Vishnu Yamala Tantra is not in print and I guess Pandits in **Varanasi** might have manuscripts of this.

  

**I would be grateful if any of could get a copy of the above. I am eager to bring out the next and much enlarged edition of Gayatri book with many other rare stutis and I feel inclusion of the above will make it complete and benefit all Astikas. I leave it to Mata Gayatrias She alone can decide whether or not this should happen.**

  

May We Pray To Mata Gayatri every day!

  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5Xb08tSlhOcWw4aHc/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XZ0J4YUJkWTRvTXc/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XZUJiTFdYUHEzUUk/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XMkIxb24zVnk3N0U/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Sanskrit](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XdFRnMllqY0dZU0E/edit?usp=sharing)  

