+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2016-03-23, 00:18:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/kBeePBidKJU)]]



courtesy:Sri.Sarma Sastrigal

  

  

We have some ideas about *Jata, Ghana*parayanam. etc. You have any idea about "Varna Kramam" in the Vedas.

  

Here it is - a very brief note.

  

Varna kramam is an aspect of Veda*Lakshana*or the grammar of Vedas.

  

Every word in the Vedas is characterized by eight facets: pronunciation, placement (sthana), time of the day, precise timing of the word, musical note underlying the word (swara), the pertinent Goddess, lilt (jati) and varna. The combination of these eight dimensions in which Veda has to be learnt and chanted is collectively known by the phrase Varna kramam.

  

The true beauty of Veda chanting can be seen and experienced when you hear 'Varna krama lakshana parayanam', which is the pinnacle of Veda abhyasa (training in the Vedas). Students are taught this right at the end: that is, only after 'ghana patha adhyayana' (learning of Ghana patha).

  

Ghanapati-s, as you know, are masters of Vedas who can do 'ghana patha' or chanting Vedas in the ghana style. When they are also proficient in Varna kramam, they are known as 'Salakshana ghanapati's'.

  

[Varna Kramam for "Sudinam cha me" Veda Parayanam during Hyderabad Veda Sammelanam](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KbAGMtljCbg)  

  

    Varna kramam for namah

    My understanding from the scholars of Mattur is that this is an extremely detailed krama  that breaks down each word into individual letters and describes its usage, meaning and derivation, as well as devatā and chhandas. It consists of 4 kramas or steps, ultimately describing the 26 parameters of each syllable: Vikriti Patha, Pada Krama, Adhyayana karma, artha karma, describing sthānam, devatā, chhandas, prayatna, niṣpatti (derivation). It is seen in vidvadgoṣṭhis and is primarily the domain of mimamsakas-such an elaborate analysis of every letter of the veda is of most interest to those who are focussed on veda rakshaṇam particularly from the ritual aspect. Whilst interesting , for those whose prime interest is Vedanta, it is probably more detail than needed.
     
    There is a Bangalore institute attempting to bring out publication of the varna karma patha of Tattiriya Sakha along with other works that help analyse this Sakha in full detail. You can find a weblink below. I am sure they would welcome any financial/other support from interested sadhakas in the publication of these works
     
    http://www.parankusa.org/intro.html

