+++
title = "008 Naresh Cuntoor"

+++
[[Naresh Cuntoor	2010-07-01, 04:39:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/4pFzq6_C79A)]]



\> How does this then differ from prakRti?

I don't have Ram Nath Sharma's book to see how the term prakRti is  
used there. But, generally, grammar texts use the term to mean the  
upaadaana-kaaraNam - material cause which undergoes transformations to  
yield the final result (i.e., the pada desired).

A commonly quoted analogy is in order कुण्डलाय हिरण्यम् -- हिरण्यं  
प्रकृतिः, कुण्डलं विकृतिः  
Note that such a relationship does not exist in उदकाय कूपः or वाहनाय  
इन्धनम्, where water (resp. fuel) do not undergo material  
transformation to yield a well (resp. vehicle).

  
In the case of ti\~g / sub-antas, this means that dhaatu and  
praatipadikas both are considered prakRti, because they undergo  
'material' change.  
For example, गम् -> गच्छ, (see, इषु ... छः ).

  
In the context of these derivations, I think that प्रकृति has a less  
formal definition compared to अङ्ग. I am sure reading the commentaries  
has given you a better appreciation of the nuances associated with the  
latter. Such a parsing is not there for prakRti, rather it is used as  
a generally understood term to better explain the role of dhaatu,  
praatipadika, pratyaya, etc. Just that you start with some substratum  
which undergoes modifications to yield the final result. This notion  
is captured by prakRti-vikRti, hence their usage, I suspect.

  
As far as the suggestion on McDonnell's book, IMO, Hans gets it right.  
We have gone over this in a previous thread where it was pointed out  
that even circa-19th century European grammarians advise serious  
students to go back to Panini sutras. At any rate, intermediate /  
advanced students in India continue to use his sutras (through  
Kashika, Kaumudi, college notes-supplemented Kaumudi etc.). So it is  
certainly not "impossible" as P. Muzi puts it.

  
Naresh  
[vaak.wordpress.com](http://vaak.wordpress.com)  

