+++
title = "000 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2010-10-31, 08:53:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/TeaVuQstr_Q)]]



Dear Mr. Hadley,  
Since you already discovered SANSCRIPT, this series may not interest you. But I thought of completing what I had undertaken. I guess, the explanations and examples of English words are still useful.  

**Part 3 - Vowels ए ऐ ओ औ अं and अः**  
  

In earlier parts we covered vowels अ आ इ ई उ ऊ ऋ ऋ(long) लृ लृ (long)  
There has been a comment that Sanskrit script does not include लृ (long). In my notings also, I had mentioned that this vowel, if at all it exists, is only theoretical.  
To proceed further, one has next four vowels, which are mixed vowels.  
  
ए (= अ + इ) or (अ + ई) being the sound  

-   of vowel "e" in "get" -   of "a_e" in "gate" -   of "ai" in "gait" -   Interestingly, I know that at least in Kannada script they write the
    short ए in "get" differently from the long ए in "gate" or in
    "gait"  

ऐ (= आ + इ) or (आ + ई)  

-   No English word comes to mind which has the pronunciation of this
    vowel -   This is typically the exclamation when one gets a sudden cramp :-(  

ओ (= अ + उ) or (अ + ऊ) being the sound  

-   of "oa" in "goat" -   of "o_e" in "rote"  

औ (= आ + उ) or (आ + ऊ) being the sound of "ou" in "couch"  
  
These vowels seem to be really the beginning of the thought of conjugations सन्धि i.e. mixing of successive sounds, which may happen, often very naturally even in common speech.  
  
There are two vowel sounds which are typical of the English language  

-   sound of "a" in "at" and  
-   sound of "o" in "got", of "au(gh)" in "taught" of "ou(gh)" in
    "fought" -   Traditional Devanagari script does not have letters or strokes to
    write these sounds, maybe, because there is no word in Sanskrit
    requiring these sounds. But in modern script the crescent stroke has
    become the accepted norm to represent these sounds. The crescent is
    present in ॐ That stroke is adopted in modern Devanagari for these
    sounds.  

The final two vowels are अं and अः  
अं is actually अ + म् where म् is a nasal sound taken note of, also among consonants. But अ + म् together is recognized as a vowel sound and written as अं One may question this recognition. But it has been so since eons and one has to accept it as such.  
  
अः This vowel also has two components अ and the colon "ः" The colon represents an aspiration. Actually aspiration called as "visarga" may follow any other vowel-sound also. For example आः as in देवाः, इः as in मतिः, ईः as in नदीः, उः as in भानुः, ऊः as in चमूः, ओः as in भानोः  
When Devanagari script identifies अः as a vowel, what is to be understood is that it identifies the sound of aspiration, which is represented by the colon. In English the aspiration is seen in many exclamations such as "ah" "eh" "ih" "uh" "oh". The aspiration is spelled in English by the consonant "h" not by a vowel.  
  
This completes all vowels in Devanagari.  

शुभमस्तु ।  

  
सस्नेहम् ,  
अभ्यंकरकुलोत्पन्नः श्रीपादः \|  
"श्रीपतेः पदयुगं स्मरणीयम् ।"  
<http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com>  
<http://slezall.blogspot.com>  
स्थापित-दूरभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 22 2849 5365](tel:+91%2022%202849%205365)  
चलितभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 98330 72044](tel:+91%2098330%2072044)  
  

