+++
title = "006 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2015-10-15, 18:14:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/HKXgLNFyiK4)]]



\>\>Objections - When a human being should come into the picture of a war

between**Devas and Asuras**. Why Dasaratha should give**two**boons to

Kaiakeyi.?

Answer: See slokas 11 to 17 in the same sarga. See the wordतत्रापि in sloka 16.

Dasaratha was saved twice and hence two boons.  

  

\>\> Kaikeyi was given the option to ask them**whenever**she wanted.  

This is true, as per sloka 17.

  

My objections to treat this as fiction:

  

  

1) **Dasaratha had a daughter by name Santa** -The Bala Kanda gives us the information that he had a daughter by name Santa, who was adopted by Romapada and was given in marriage to Rsyasrnga. Sumantra mentions this when he suggests to Dasaratha to bring Rsyasrnga to Ayodhya to perform putra-kameshti yaga.  

“In this way (according to the suggestion of the family priest and the ministers of King Romapada) the Rsi’s son (Rsyasrnga) will be caused by Romapada (the ruler of the Anga territory) to be brought (to his own capital) through courtesans, when the rain-god will cause clouds to send down rain and Santa (Dasaratha’s daughter adopted by Romapada) will be given (in marriage to Rsyasrnga). (Valmiki Ramayana, Bala Kanda, Canto IX, Sloka 18).

  

So Dasaratha can very well crown hisजामाता and continuity could be in a different fashion.

  

2) Even if the boons are NOT taken in to consideration, Dasaratha has assured Kekaya king to give the kingdom for the child borne to Kaikeyi.

Please see(Valmiki Ramayana, Ayodhya Kanda, Canto CVII, Sloka 2-6).

  

Source is from here:  

  

<http://heritagewiki.org/index.php/Kaikeyi_-_Part_1>  

  

<http://heritagewiki.org/index.php/Kaikeyi_-_Part_2>  

  

Of course Kamba ramayan reinforces the above facts.

  

some other interesting facts:

  

1\) Did Rama actually carried out matru vakya paripalana or pitru vakya paripalana ....??

  

No mention of Dasaratha asking him to go to forest, but kaikeyi on his behalf.

  

2\) There is a story that the avatar of Bhagavan Sri Ramachandra as maruthanallur sadguru swamigal was to carry out Maatru vaakya paripalana of Kaushalyaa... by doing uncavritti.



