+++
title = "003 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2017-06-15, 11:12:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/62JUaNBz-S8)]]



Thanks Naresh ji..

No, I did not go to that extent...

I was reading this story here:

<http://laukiksanskrit.blogspot.in/2016/10/blog-post.html>  

  

My exact trouble was in making out the meaning ofअनावृत-

It has many meanings:

<http://spokensanskrit.de/index.php?beginning=0+&tinput=+%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%A8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%83%E0%A4%A4&trans=Translate>  

  

Which one to pick up was the trouble?

\>\>अनावृतः कपाटः यस्य तत् अनावृतकपाटम् (द्वारम्)-

Does it mean the door which is open?Then the door is already open, why should he ask it to be opened?

  

Or

This is my understanding.

अनावृत- Open  

कपाटः - a panel of a door . Here the door happens to be the one with only one panel.  

द्वारम् - Entrance & not door with reference to the context.  

देहि - Give... ( Give way - open)  

  

So the meaning is - Please give way to the entrance which has a single panel door in which the panel of the door is kept open...

  

Am I right?

  

  

Namaste Sriram ji,

  

That was an awesome explanation...   

  

Muthuswamy dikshitar in his kamalamba navavarana kritis, in his 8th avarna kriti

## **shrI kamalAmbikE avAva**

states-

**  
**

**santataM mukti ghaNTAmaNi ghOSAyamAna kavATadvArE** meaning  

In the wide doorway of Her abode, wherein the jewelled bell constantly announces salvation.  

  

here,**kavATadvArE means**wide doorway...?????

  

So this goes very well with your explanation.

  

But why should Kalidasa beckon salvation from his wife? Probably he is hinting her to accept him as Samskrit Vidvaan & grant him freedom to write the kAvyaas..??

  

whether her wife immediately opened the door or not is not known, but she asked-

पत्नी अपृच्छत्----"अस्ति कश्चित् वाग्विशेषः ?"  

  

Rest which followed is history.

  

Thanks a lot.

  

namaskarams



