+++
title = "001 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-10-05, 18:28:54 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Qu5-mIvGLS4)]]



Dhaval,  
  
I am sure grammarians will have a more authoritative answer but the  
following is what I think.  
  
I do not think there can be a 'final' answer to this and similar other  
issues of pronunciation. A 'gold standard' for pronunciation does not  
exist even today, with all help of technology, for any language.  
English, for example, has several styles of pronunciation, each held  
as a standard in its own region. The 'American' English is different  
from the 'Australian' variety and both are miles away from the 'King's  
English'. The 'Indian' variety of English has further subdivisions  
based on the regional differences  
  
In the case of pronunciation of Sanskrit words, the problem is  
further complicated by hundreds of years of local traditions and  
influences of vernacular languages.  
  
I would go a step further and say that I doubt whether a 'standard'  
pronunciation ever existed even in the distant past because the same  
reasons that explain the difference today were always present even in  
the past. Since recording sounds was not invented, we may perhaps  
never know how letters such as ज्ञ, ष, ळ were pronounced, either  
universally or even regionally. That is why ज्ञ is dnya in Maharashtra  
and gya in North India, or ष is Sha in Maharashtra but is kha for  
Brahmins of Mithila. A Vedic chanting tells you upon hearing it  
whether the Brahmin reciting it is from South India or elsewhere.  
सर्व becomes सर्ब्ब in a Sanskrit text printed in Bengal.  
  
The placement of a letter in the list of alphabets and the  
descriptions of classes of letters such as ओष्ठय, तालव्य, मूर्धन्य  
help to some extent but that orderly scheme does not render much  
assistance for the 'rogue' letters like ज्ञ, ष, ळ.  
  
Some people are prone to approach this issue from a 'jingoistic' point  
of view. They hold their own style of pronunciation as the 'learned'  
way and deride all others as country yokels, little realizing that  
differences in pronunciation are inherent.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, October 05, 2011.

