+++
title = "017 C.V.Krishna Kumar"

+++
[[C.V.Krishna Kumar	2014-12-01, 19:38:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/sahtf-i5c-E)]]



*Why buy Sanskrit books when you can learn using on line resources?*  

*-- because structure helps, at least to me.*

*  
*

*Sanskrit is taught in a complex script allover in Indian schools  
*

*-- I beg to differ. The script is one of the most important features of the language. Compared to English, where same letters can be pronounced in different ways (like ough in tough, trough, through, thorough), Samskrit is phoenetic. Means less arbitrary rules to remember by rote, imho.*

  

*Look at most Indian Gurus who chant in Sanskrit but communicate in English Why?   
*

*-- Depends who the target audience is. Not many communicate in english afaik.*

*  
*

*Most of Sanskrit knowledge have already been translated and available in various languages.*

*-- Nope. Translation in general to another language loses its essence and mars its beauty. Like watching films solely through subtitles.*

*  
*

*Furthermore, translation to an inferior language ( where there are not enough words to describe deep concepts) is a lossy translation. We have works of literature in Sanskrit where there are multiple layers of meanings, beautiful and artistic structural formulations and specific intonations. IMHO, to "read it in translations" is like \*reading\* Mozart's music notes on paper - lossy, and misrepresented. But why go there when we can easily learn the language (given that we have learned English - a foreign language, this should not be too hard). Why lean on crutches instead of enjoying and appreciating the original. :)*

*  
*

  





> 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to a topic in the > Google Groups "samskrita" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this topic, visit > <https://groups.google.com/d/topic/samskrita/sahtf-i5c-E/unsubscribe>.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and all its topics, send an email to > [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 



