+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2021-06-01, 19:27:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Yx_AD2MzUB4)]]



Link for the month of June 2021 - A Syllabus New Batches Registration Form

  

<https://forms.gle/BmVJtoVN4CDkEZCFA>

  

Namaskaram to all

  

Om Namo Narayana!

  

VISVAS Institute of Sri Vishnu Sahasranamam from Chennai (India) is teaching Sri Vishnu Sahasranamam classes online for free to the student-devotees all over the world. Classes will be held for 75 minutes everyday for approximately 21 days. There will, however, be no classes on Saturdays and Sundays. Kids(6+) and adults are welcome. There are new batches starting - in the month of June. The batches are in Tamizh, Telugu, Kannada and English, Malayalam , Hindi with the respective language coordinators in India.

  

The following is the Enquiry form for the above new batches as well as further upcoming batches. This may be filled in by any interested devotee / student residing in India or abroad. Once filled, please be assured, that you will be admitted in any of the batches upcoming shortly.

  

Make sure the name of the student is the name of the person who will be attending the classes. If it’s a child, give the child’s name and not the parent’s name. This name will be used to send out the ID cards and Certificates. Also, your email Address be of gmail and not of any other email app.

Pls use edit your option if in case any correction in the previous entry. Do not fill a separate form for corrections to avoid duplication

Thanks for understanding.

Happy chanting.

