+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2016-09-18, 22:36:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/f2NFPa_5O1s)]]



Courtesy:Sri.P.R.Kannan

  

***MUCHUKUNDA’S DEVOTION***

-   P.R.Kannan

**Muchukunda the Monkey in Kailasa**

Once Siva and Parvathi were seated under a bilva tree in Kailasa, looking at a beautiful garden. A powerful monkey with black face climbed up the tree and started plucking bilva leaves and dropping them in plenty with great devotion on the divine couple. Parvathi looked up and stared angrily at the monkey and spoke to Siva of the intruder. Siva explained that the monkey was devoted to them; he called the monkey down. The monkey prostrated. Siva blessed with great compassion:

सार्वभौमो भवाशु त्वं बिल्वपत्रैर्-मदर्चया ॥

भुवि सर्व-महीपाल-मौलि-लालित-पादवान् ।

अन्ते कैलासं-आगत्य गाणापत्यं सुदुर्लभम् ॥

“As you worshipped me with bilva leaves, you will become a great emperor on earth, adored by all kings, whose crowns would caress your feet while prostrating. You will come to Kailasa later and attain the rare position of headship of Sivaganas.” We may recollect here the story of Maha Sivaratri. A hunter climbed up a tree in the dark night, chased by a tiger. It started raining. Just casually, he plucked the leaves of that tree and started dropping them in order to keep awake and alert. The whole night was spent this way. In the morning the hunter was taken to Kailasa by Sivaganas. His extraordinary merit was that he bathed (in rain water), plucked fresh bilva leaves (without knowing they were bilva) and dropped them on a Sivalingam at the foot of the tree (again he was unaware of the presence of Sivalingam). The monkey, on the other hand, dropped the bilva leaves on Siva and Parvathi in Kailasa with full knowledge. It is not surprising that it earned the immediate grace of Siva!

The monkey’s reaction showed that it was no ordinary monkey, but a Mahatma. It said to Siva:

“देवदेव महादेव करुणामृतसागर । यद्युत्पत्तिर्-भवेदस्मै भवद्भक्ताय विश्वप ॥

तदाऽज्ञानं भवेन्नूनं तन्मे वदनमीदृशम् । ममाकारं भवत्वीश रक्ष मां परया मुदा ॥“

“O Deva among Devas, Mahadeva, ocean of the nectar of compassion, protector of the universe, if I, your devotee, have to be born on earth, Agnana would certainly befall me. Hence I pray that my face shall be the same as of now (monkey’s face) (in order to remind me of this birth and this blessing of yours). Please protect me with much joy.” It calls for great wisdom, dispassion and forethought to seek such a rare blessing!

  

The monkey was born as Muchukunda in the lineage of Harischandra, the Solar race, which produced Sri Rama later. He was a noble and just king, endowed naturally with righteousness and devotion. When the marriage of Lord Subrahmanya with Devasena was celebrated at Tirupparankunram, Muchukunda was a special guest invited by Indra. He attended the marriage and developed great devotion to Subrahmanya. He sought the advice of Kulaguru Vasishtha on the vratas to be observed in honour of Subrahmanya.

  

**Subrahmanya Vratas**

Vasishtha recommended three important vratas. They are: **Sukravara vrata, Krittika vrata and Skandashashti vrata**.

शुक्रवारव्रतं तस्मात् गुहस्येष्ट-फलप्रदम् । नारदस्-तपतां श्रेष्ठश्-चरित्वा व्रतमुत्तमम् ॥

कृत्तिकायां विधानेन श्रेष्ठोऽभूद्-ऋषिषु स्वयम् । स्कन्दषष्ठी व्रतं त्वन्यद्-विख्यातं भुवनत्रये ॥

चरित्वा यत्पुरा देवा ऋषयश्च तपोधनाः । त्यक्त्वाऽसुरभयान् प्रापुः पदानि स्वानि पूर्ववत् ॥

Skanda Purana cites in this context the benefits reaped by many persons who observed these vratas sincerely. A virtuous king named Bhagiratha lost his kingdom in a battle with a Rakshasa called Ghora. On the advice of sage Bhrigu, the king observed **vrata on Fridays** devotedly. This vrata is started on the first Friday of Tula (Aippasi) month and continued on all Fridays. This is said to bestow fulfilment of all desires. After three years, the lance (vel) of Skanda killed the Rakshasa and Bhagiratha became the unchallenged king again.

Sage Narada observed the **Krittika vrata** and became the best among Rishis. By virtue of the merit of Krittika vrata, two brahmanas, Antima and Santima, became kings and finally attained Moksham.

By observing **Skandashashti vrata**, Brahma, Vishnu and Devas overpowered many Asuras in battles many times. Devas and Rishis got rid of the fear of enemies and lived normal lives again.

Muchukunda practised all the vratas religiously. Such was his devotion that Subrahmanya appeared before him and told him to ask for a boon. Muchukunda opted for a strange plea that all the one lakh and nine brothers of Subrahmanya should be born on earth as his younger brothers, with whose help he would rule his kingdom comfortably. Perhaps Muchukunda’s intention was that with this mighty army he would be free from the worries of kingship and that he could engage in spiritual activities with devotion full time. Virabahu and the other brothers of Skanda resented the idea of being younger brothers to a mere human. However Skanda forced them to take birth as humans and assist Muchukunda as his younger brothers. Skanda Purana interestingly notes that their relation to Muchukunda was like that of Upendra (Vishnu) to Indra in Vamanavatara. Muchukunda shone as a great emperor with these divine brothers commanding his army.

Once Indra was defeated by an Asura named Vala in a battle. Indra then approached Muchukunda to come and help him fight the powerful Asura. Muchukunda went to Devaloka and killed the army of Vala. Indra killed Vala with his Vajrayudha and came to be known as Valari.

**Somaskanda Murtham**

After the battle, Muchukunda was seated with Indra in his prayer room. He noticed the beautiful Somaskanda idol, to which Indra was offering Pooja. He was moved to tears of devotion. At that time Parameswara appeared before him and said to him in secret: “I was worshipped by Vishnu earlier; now I am here with Indra. You are the best of my devotees. You offer me worship hereafter.” Muchukunda became elated at this sudden benediction of Siva. After the Pooja was over, Indra, with the help of Kamadhenu, extended to Muchukunda all hospitalities including luxurious food, clothes, jewels etc. At Indra’s fervent request to ask for whatever he desired, Muchukunda pleaded to Indra to hand over the Somaskanda idol to him for offering Pooja.

Indra gave a long reply: “This Murtham is not mine. It was worshipped earlier by Vishnu. Vishnu had prayed to Siva for Putrabhagya as he had no son. When Siva gave him the boon for son, Parvathi was annoyed that Vishnu had prayed to Siva in exclusion of herself. She therefore cursed that the son who would be born of Vishnu would be burnt by the third eye of Agni of Siva later. It was at this stage that Vishnu started to worship this Somaskanda Murtham regularly with great devotion. After some time, Siva, together with Parvathi and Subrahmanya, appeared and Vishnu chanted hymns in their praise. He prayed to Parvathi to withdraw her earlier curse. Parvathi said that her curse was powerful and inviolable; but however his son would be revived by Siva after being burnt. Vishnu became happy and later Manmatha manifested as his mind-born progeny. Manmatha got burnt while attempting to distract Siva’s mind; but later he was restored to life by Siva at the intervention of Parvathi during their marriage. Thus Vishnu got his son back to life by worshipping this Somaskanda Murtham.

Vishnu was so much devoted to this Murtham that he was in Yoganidra on the bed of Sesha in the Ocean of Milk with this Murtham on his chest. With the rhythmic breath of Vishnu and Sesha, there were waves in the Ocean of Milk. This Murtham on the chest of Vishnu started to tilt and perform a rhythmic dance known as ‘Ajapa Natanam’, dance without chanting. At that time I approached him and conveyed that a terrible Asura named Vaakkaali had come to fight me. Vishnu told me not to fear. He handed to me this Somaskanda Murtham and went to **Chidambaram** on earth. He spent four months there, praying to Sri **Nataraja**, moved to tears of joy and hoarse throat unable to utter words.

(It is interesting to note that Sri Nataraja’s appearance at Chidambaram was itself the culmination of severe tapas by two Maharishis, Patanjali and Vyaghrapada. Patanjali was none other than Sesha. Once Vishnu started laughing merrily while lying on his usual bed of Sesha in the Ocean of Milk. His weight also had apparently increased owing to his extraordinary mental state of bliss. Sesha enquired for the reason. Vishnu replied that he meditated on the dancing Siva he had seen in Darukavana and that is why he became so ecstatic. Siva and Vishnu had both gone to Darukavana in order to teach the Rishis there a lesson on infusion of karmas with bhakti. Siva was in the garb of Bhikshatana and Vishnu in the form of Mohini. The Rishis attacked the Bhikshatana Siva, who was naked and who distracted the wives of the Rishis. The Rishis themselves were enticed by Mohini. Finally the Rishis realised the truth and begged Siva for mercy. Siva taught them the necessity of bhakti. He guided them in the performance of karmas laid down in Vedas with the spirit of bhakti and dedication of fruit of the karmas to the Lord with no sense of doership. Siva magnanimously enacted the Tandava dance as Nataraja in front of the mesmerised Rishis. Vishnu enjoyed that darshan along with the Rishis in Darukavana.

Sesha was now keen to have the darshan of Nataraja. As advised by Vishnu, he came down to earth in the form of Patanjali, performed tapas at Chidambaram and finally obtained Nataraja’s darshan on a Thai Poosam day.)

Vishnu then came back and fought and killed the Asura, and asked me to get back to Amaravathi. He returned to his bed in the Ocean of Milk. From that day I have been worshipping this Somaskanda Murtham continuously with great joy. If I have to give this idol to you, you have to go to Vishnu and take his prior permission.”

Muchukunda immediately approached Vishnu, obtained his permission and returned to Indra. He asked him to hand over the idol now. Indra, being unwilling to part with his beloved idol, got six similar-looking idols prepared by the divine architect Visvakarma and handed over one of them to Muchukunda deceitfully. Muchukunda realised that the idol was not genuine and spoke to Indra. Indra then gave the second of the six fake idols to him. Again Muchukunda complained. This cycle was repeated six times. Finally, impressed by Muchukunda’s perseverance and dedication, Indra gave him the original Somaskanda Murtham, worshipped by him. Muchukunda became extremely happy and established the original Murtham at **Kamalalayam**, the Thyagaraja temple at Tiruvarur. He constructed a large complex of Mandapams, gopurams etc. there and offered Poojas. He also set up the other six Somaskanda idols in towns adjacent to Tiruvarur. They are the famous **Saptha Vitanka kshetras**. Tanka means hammer. Vitanka means ‘without hammer’, i.e. not man-made. As the seven Murthas had been made by Viswakarma and brought from Swargaloka, they are ‘Vitanka’. All the seven Murthas are known as ‘**Thyagaraja Murthas’**. These kshetras are:

Tiruvarur Veedhi Vitanka Ajapa Natanam

Tirunallaru Nagara Vitanka Unmatta Natanam

Tirunagaikkaronam Sundara Vitanka Paravara Taranga Natanam

Tirukkaraivasal Adi Vitanka Kukkuta Natanam

Tirukkolili Avani Vitanka Bhringa Natanam

Tiruvaimur Nila Vitanka Kamala Natanam

Tirumaraikkadu Bhuvani Vitanka Hamsapada Natanam

To this day these kshetras are very popular with people thronging in large numbers particularly during festivals when these special dances of the Utsava deities can be witnessed. After ruling his kingdom justly and righteously for many years, Muchukunda handed the reign to his son Agnivarna and attained to Kailasa, where he became head of Sivaganas. Thus we note from the story of Muchukunda that his Subrahmanya bhakti was instrumental in the Saptha Vitanka kshetras coming up for the welfare of humanity. Somaskanda is the Murtham of Siva, Uma and Bala Skanda together. Worship of Somaskanda bestows everything desired including Moksham. Skanda Purana says:

सोमास्कन्दो यतः स्वामी मूर्तिमान्-अभवच्-छिवः ।

आत्मानोहि ततो लब्ध-पुत्राहि स्युर्-नचान्यथा ॥

“Because Siva took the form of Somaskanda, living beings beget progeny; not otherwise.” Hence those wishing for progeny specially offer worship to Somaskanda.

Virabahu and all his brothers also attained to Skandaloka and rejoined their elder brother Skanda. Indra, who had attempted to deceive the great devotee Muchukunda by giving fake vigrahas, was born a chandala on earth. He performed severe penance at Tiruvarur and regained the position of Indra by the grace of Thyagaraja.

**OM TAT SAT**

  
  

