+++
title = "000 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2017-08-01, 16:38:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/2iGGu00pQSE)]]



<https://books.google.co.in/books?id=hLGgZOzTYzsC&pg=PA69&lpg=PA69&dq=bhavabhuti+%26+kalidas&source=bl&ots=nvMFuHLHAq&sig=T5uNlwAqXagvfqRnDsrO90IPO_U&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwj2_8SKpqXSAhWEvI8KHQmkD6gQ6AEISTAL#v=onepage&q=bhavabhuti%20%26%20kalidas&f=false>

  

<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/sadaswada/0bw62VLsG4Y/Lk41oKCYXhEJ>

**  
**

**BHAVABHUTI & KALIDASA**

  

अविदितगतयामा \[रात्रिः\]  

  

(avidita-gata-yāmā \[rātriḥ\])

  

MEANING:

> 
> > Literally, "unknowingly-gone-hours \[night\]" , meaning "\[The night\] > whose course/hours passed unknowingly". Yāma means both 'course' as > well as a unit of 3 hours used most commonly when measuring night > times (for example a synonym for night is triyāma, 'the one with > lasting 3yāmas') >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

CONTEXT:

> 
> > This phrase is from Bhavabhūti's play Uttararāmacaritam, first act > verse 27. It's often said that there is no greater delight than > theUttararāmacaritam for a mind with a taste forpathos (karuṇā). The > content of the play derives from the Rāmāyaṇa and involves events > after the war with Rāvaṇa.Rāma makes the harsh decision of abandoning > a pregnant Sītā in response to slander against her character, and the > story continues with the birth and ascent of his sons Lava and Kuśa.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Bhavabhūti is often placed beside Kālidāsa in lists of Sanskrit's > greatest playwrights; in fact, there is an entire genre of writing > that involves fictional stories of these two poets sparring with each > other.Bhavabhūti is depicted as an learned, passionate, highly > emotional poet who nevertheless is just a shade lesser than > thebalanced, effortlessly brilliantKālidāsa whose simplicity is > beyond genius. The modern historical view is that they were not > contemporaries at all, but that is a minor nitpick compared to the > poetic and entertainment value of these imagined contests :-) >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > TheUttararāmacaritam begins withRāma having his daily meetings > withSītā by his side. Several attendants come in with news and > personal messages from well-wishers and this sets the scene. In > classic fashion, there are several forebodings of what is to come, but > of course the characters are unaware of that. Lakṣmaṇa then enters, > and escorts the couple to a newly completed picture gallery which has > portraits of events from Rāma's life. The trio chat heartily as they > move from picture to picture, fromRāma's birth, Viśvāmitra's > arrival,Rāma winningSītā and his victorious arrival into the city, > etc. The poet cleverly uses this to sketchRāma's dignity and > appropriateness for which this play is famous; for example, when the > trio comes to a picture of Kaikeyi,Rāma makes up an quick excuse and > moves on.Rāma andSītā's mutual love is also brought out > beautifully.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The trio then come to a picture of the Prasravaṇa mountain in the > Janasthāna forest. This is last time the couple was happy together in > the forest.Rāma reminisces about those wonderful nights, and > asksSītā if she remembers the time when: >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > किमपि किमपि मन्दं मन्दमासक्तियोगात् >
> 
> > 
> > अविरलितकपोलं जल्पतोरक्रमेण \| >
> 
> > 
> > अशिथिलपरिरम्भव्यापृतैकैकदोष्णो: >
> 
> > 
> > **अविदितगतयामा**रात्रिरेव व्यरंसीत् \|\| >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > kimapi kimapi mandaṃ mandam āsaktiyogāt >
> 
> > 
> > aviralita-kapolaṃ jalpator-akrameṇa \| >
> 
> > 
> > aśithila-parirambha-vyāpṛt-aikaika-doṣṇoḥ >
> 
> > 
> > **avidita-gata-yāmā**rātrireva vyaraṃsīt \|\| >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > (mālinī metre, 15 syllables per line)
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > "We were sitting close together, our cheeks touching and arms in a > tight embrace, chatting aimlessly about all kinds of things -- the > night itself went by before we knew it!" >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > This is probably the most famous verse of the work because of a cute > story: In one of the fictionalBhavabhūti vs Kālidāsa tales, it's said > thatBhavabhūti had originally written the 4th line as > "avidita-gata-yāmārātrireva**ṃ**vyaraṃsīt" - it's still in the same > metre, but means "the night*thus*passed unknowingly". He goes > toKālidāsa to get his play reviewed.Kālidāsa is (as can be expected) > in a state of general bliss, calmly chewing his betel leaf after his > meal. He reads the play, smiles atBhavabhūti and hands him a betel > leaf with a big circle of slaked lime in its middle. He tells him, > "Don't you think that's a little too much lime?" >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Bhavabhūti goes home, and tries to decipher this. "Too much lime? > Maybe he means I'm overpowering the mood somewhere. But where? Why > would he give me a betel leaf? Well typically a betel leaf is chewed > after a hearty meal, in a calm, serene, happy setting. The only such > moods in my work are at the happy ending and the happy beginning. > Happy endings are fine -- let me check my beginning again". Lo and > behold! He finds this verse, and sees that removing theanusvāra (the > circle) would make the line go from the bald journalistic tone of"the > night*thus*passed unknowingly" to the beautifully poetic "the > night*itself*passed unknowingly" :-)  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > This is a major turning point in the play. That event was the last > time the couple were together in the forest, and is now the last time > they are together in their adulthood. What happens next? Read > theUttararāmacaritam to find out, and to develop a most vile distaste > for public opinion!
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 

A THOUGHT FOR TODAY:

> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > ये नाम केचिदिह नः प्रथयन्त्यवज्ञां >
> 
> > 
> > जानन्ति ते किमपि तान्प्रति नैष यत्नः \| >
> 
> > 
> > उत्पत्स्यते तु मम कोऽपि समानधर्मा
> > 
> > 
> > कालो ह्ययं निरवधिर्विपुला च पृथ्वी॥
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > ye nāma kecidiha naḥ prathayantyavajñāṃ >
> 
> > 
> > jānanti te kimapi tānprati naiṣa yatnaḥ \| >
> 
> > 
> > utpatsyate tu mama ko'pi samānadharmā
> > 
> > 
> > kālo hyayaṃ niravadhirvipulā ca pṛthvī \|\|
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > PoorBhavabhūti appears not unfamiliar to getting a bad rap in his own > time, a state that has plagued his image for centuries now. In his > play Mālatīmādhava, he makes a point that deserves to be the leading > light of anyone wishing to do something of value and is put off by > discouragement. Besides the words of Gandhi ("First they laugh at > you,...") and Teddy Roosevelt ("It is not the critic who > counts..."),Bhavabhūti's confidence in the future stands > resplendent:
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > "They who disparage my work should know that it's not for them that I > did it. One day, there will arise someone who will truly know me: this > world is vast, and time infinite." >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > "Samāna-dharmā" ('equal spirit') could very well have been today's > phrase!
> > 
> > 

