+++
title = "000 धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>"

+++
[[धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>	2011-09-04, 12:09:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/kMo0MQ-RQ78)]]



Respected Samskrita Group Members,

Recently one of the group's members had asked for a list of pANini's  
"mute" markers (इत्), and what they signified; and also some of his  
shorthand "#define" terms. (I am told that #define are directives to  
the computer preprocessor for the C family of languages, they replace  
some shorthand word used by the programmer to an expansion that can be  
used by the processor.)

I had the good fortune to get access to "A Dictionary of Sanskrit  
Grammar" by Mahamahopadhyaya K. V. Abhyankar. I have collated and  
abstracted the entries for the "mute" markers (इत्) and shorthand  
(#define) terms from this dictionary to put together this glossary.

I apologize for the long email, but I would like to have this glossary  
on record, so that it can be discoverable from the internet.

Please send me any corrections directly (avoid spamming the whole  
list) and I will gratefully make the corrections.

धनंजय

\- - - - - -

  
A GLOSSARY OF "MUTE" MARKERS ATTACHED TO GRAMMATICAL TERMS (इत्) AND  
THEIR SIGNIFICATION.

Abstracted from "A Dictionary of Sanskrit Grammar" by Mahamahopadhyaya  
K. V. Abhyankar

\- - -  
अ There is one known instance of this in the pratyAhArasUtra  
(प्रत्याहारसूत्र) 5, लण्, and its only use is to make up the short  
form "र" (nasalized) to encompass the letters र and ल. Other than this  
unusual marker from the प्रत्याहारसूत्र, none of the other markers  
from the प्रत्याहारसूत्र are mentioned in this glossary. (See  
footnote)

आ the end-marker in verb-roots such as ञिमिदा, (marker ञि+मिद् +  
marker आ), prevents the insertion of an intermediate इ for the past  
participle affixes त and तवत् (e.g., मिन्न), except when the affixes  
are used to form gerundive nouns, in which case the intermediate इ is  
optional (i.e., मिन्न or मेदित)

इ the end-marker in verb-roots such as टुनदि (marker टु + नद्+ marker  
इ), there is an insertion of a nasal नुम् (न्) for much of the  
conjugation and derived words, e.g., नन्दन

ई the end-marker in verb-roots such as दीपी (दीप् + marker ई),  
prevents the insertion of an intermediate इ for the past participle  
affixes त and तवत् ; thus the incorrect form \*दीपित would be  
prevented, and the form दीप्त is allowed.

उ (1) is seen in the forms कु, चु, टु, तु, पु, each of these is a term  
for all the consonants of that स्थान-प्रयत्न class, e.g., कु is a term  
for all consonants of the स्थान-प्रयत्न class of क्, namely : क्, ख्,  
ग्, घ्, ङ्.  
उ (2) the end-marker in verb-roots such as शमु (शम् + marker उ),  
signifies that the insertion of an intermediate इ for affix त्वा is  
optional. Thus शान्त्वा and शमित्वा are alternative forms.

ऊ the end-marker in verb-roots such as गुपू (गुप् + marker ऊ) ,  
signifies that the insertion of an intermediate इ for all affixes  
that it may be relevant is optional. Thus गोप्ता and गोपिता are  
alternative forms.

ऋ the end-marker in verb-roots such as बाधृ (बाध् + marker ऋ),  
signifies that the shortening of the second of the reduplication  
syllables that is usually seen in causal aorist forms is prevented.  
Therefore अबबाधत् is the correct form (had this not been case, the  
regular form would have been \*अबीबधत्, which is incorrect)

ऌ the end-marker in verb-roots such as शक्ऌ (शक्+ marker ऌ),  
signifies that the verb takes and intermediate (विकरण) अ (अङ्)in the  
aorist, as in अशकत्

ए the end-marker in verb-roots such as रगे (रग् + marker ए),  
signifies that the vowel in the verb does not undergo वृद्धि-change  
that would have otherwise have happened in the aorist, so the form is  
अरगीत् (and not the incorrect \*अरागीत्, which would be the case if  
this verb root was regular like the others)

ओ the beginning-marker in verb-roots such as ओलस्जी (marker ओ + लस्ज्  
+ marker ई), the first consonant of the affixes त and तवत् is changed  
to न्, as in लग्न (Had this verb-root been regular, the form would  
have been \*लग्द, which is incorrect)

क् (1) when this marker is present in a affix, it prevents the गुण or  
वृद्धि change to the preceding vowel, should such a change have been  
otherwise expected. E.g., the verb participle affix क्त (marker क् +  
त): भू+क्त = भूत (not \*भोत). Another signification of this marker is  
that affixes bearing this marker are associated with semivowel->vowel  
transformation of certain verbs such as वच्+क्त = उच्+त = उक्त ; the  
लोप, i.e., elision of the penultimate न् in forms of certain verbs  
such as ध्वन्स् + क्त = ध्वस्+त = ध्वस्त ; the लोप, i.e., elision of  
the penultimate vowel in certain verb roots (P 6.4.98-100) ,  
lengthening of the vowel in certain cases (P 6.4.15), substitution of  
ऊ (P 6.4.19-21), elision of final nasal (P 6.4.37), substitution of आ  
(P 6.4.42). तद्धित affixes marked with क् result in वृद्धि of the  
first vowel of the word-form to which the affix is added.  
क् (2) when this marker is present on an augment, i.e., आगम, it  
signifies that the augment is to be affixed and not prefixed to the  
stem. E.g., प्राङ्+षष्ठः ; to प्राङ् there is the augment कुक् (क् + उ-  
for-ease-of-pronunciation + marker क्), प्राङ्+क्(prefix)+षष्ठः =  
प्राङ्क्षष्ठः

ख् when this marker is present in a affix of the second word of a  
compound, it signifies that (a) an augment nasal (termed मुम्) is  
inserted into the first word of the compound, if the अरुस्, द्विषद्,  
and preceding words ending in a vowel, (b) if the preceding word is  
not an indeclinable, i.e., अव्यय, the long vowel of the preceding word  
is shortened. सुधी + मन् + य् + (ख्)अ(श्) = सुधि + "मुम्" + मन्य =  
सुधिंमन्य (meaning : he who thinks of themselves as intelligent)

ग् when this marker is present in a affix, it prevents the गुण or  
वृद्धि change to the preceding vowel, should such a change have been  
otherwise expected. (In this it is like the marker क्, but all of the  
other significations of that marker are not present). This marker is  
rarely used, and its hidden use has been indicated by commentators of  
pANini, e.g., जि + (ग्)स्नु = जिष्णु. But (ग्)स्नु is pronounced as  
क्स्नु, so the commentary is required to recognize that the marker is  
ग् , not क्, in this case.

घ् when this marker is present in a affix, e.g., घञ् (marker घ् + अ +  
marker ञ्), it causes the terminal च् or ज् of the stem to change to  
क् or ग्, respectively. E.g., त्यज् + घञ् = त्या(वृद्धि change due to  
marker ञ्)ग्(gutteralization due to marker घ्) + अ = त्याग

ङ् (1) when this marker is present in a affix, it prevents the गुण or  
वृद्धि change to the preceding vowel, should such a change have been  
otherwise expected. (In this it is like the marker क्, but all of the  
other significations of that marker are not present).  
ङ् (2) the end-marker in verb-roots such as शीङ्, signifies that these  
verb roots are always declined in the आत्मनेपद, such as शेते  
ङ् (3) when this marker is present in a substitution, the substitution  
is not for the whole of the original, but only for the last phoneme of  
the original. Compare with the function of marker श् (2)  
ङ् (4) when this marker is present in a case affix, i.e., सुप्  
विभक्ति, it results in a गुण-change in the final vowel of the sort of  
words termed घि (nearly all words ending in इ or उ)  
ङ् (5) when this marker marks the verbal conjugation/tense terms,  
i.e., लङ्, लिङ्, लुङ्, लृङ् ; these forms marked by ङ् have some  
common characteristics : (a) the loss of the terminal स् in first  
person forms, लङ् : अभवाव, अभवाम , (b) the loss of the terminal इ in  
any forms that had it लङ् : अभवम् अभवत्

च् affixes or substitutions or bases marked with this marker have  
their final vowel उदात्त, i.e., stressed, e.g., घुरच् (घ् उर च्) :  
भञ्ज् + घुरच् = भङ्ग् (घ्) उर = भङ्गुर, the final vowel being उदात्त.  
Had the marker not been present, by default, the first vowel of a  
affix is उदात्त.

छ् not a marker, but a shorthand for ईय् (e.g., with added अ, छ=ईय).  
स्वसृ + छ = स्वसृ + ईय = स्वस्रीय (meaning sister's son)

ज् this marker is found in affixes such as जस् (marker ज् + अस्);  
however there is no function to this except to distinguish the affix  
from शस् (marker श् + अस्), which is also a case-affix.

झ् not a marker, but a shorthand for अन्त् in finite verb affixes. भू+अ  
+झि = भव्+अ+अन्त्+इ = भवन्ति

ञ् (1) when this marker is present in a affix, it causes वृद्धि change  
to the preceding vowel, and placement of stress, i.e., उदात्त to the  
first vowel of the stem, e.g., त्यज् + घञ् = त्या(वृद्धि change due to  
marker ञ्)ग्(gutteralization due to marker घ्) + अ = त्याग ; if the  
affix happens to be a तद्धित (non-case affixes that attach to  
nominals), then both the वृद्धि change , and placement of stress,  
i.e., उदात्त is at the the first vowel of the stem, e.g., दुहितृ+अ(ञ्)  
= दौहित्र (meaning someone from the daughter's lineage), where the  
stress and the वृद्धि change are both to the first vowel of the stem.  
ञ् (2) the end-marker in verb-roots such as (डु)कृ(ञ्), such a verb is  
declined in परस्मैपद, e.g., करोति, if the action is performed on  
behalf of someone other than the performer of the action, and declined  
in आत्मनेपद, e.g., कुरुते if the action is being performed on the  
performer's own behalf.

ञि the beginning-marker in verb-roots such as ञिमिदा, (marker ञि+मिद्  
+ marker आ), the "past" participle affix क्त is used in the context of  
the present (e.g., मिन्न).

ट् (1) when this marker is present in a affix that forms a masculine  
noun, the formation of the feminine of that word is with the added  
affix ङीप् (marker ङ् + ई + marker प्) E.g., कुरुषु चरति इत्यर्थे कुरु  
+चर्+(ट्)अ = कुरुचर, feminine कुरुचर + ङीप् = कुरुचरी  
ट् (2) when this marker is present on a verbal conjugation name, e.g.,  
लट्, लिट् etc., in आत्मनेपद forms the last vowel of the form changes  
to ए, e.g., in लट् लभन्ते, in लिट् लेभिरे.  
ट् (3) when this marker is present on an augment, i.e., आगम, it  
signifies that the augment is to be prefixed and not affixed to the  
stem. E.g., सम् + कार\<-augmentसुट् (स् उ-for-pronunciation marker-ट्)  
= सम् + स् (prefixed)कार = संस्कार  
ट् (4) in the instrumental singular case-marker affix टा, feminine  
affix टाप्, etc., the marker serves only to distinguish the affix from  
other affixes with the same residual phonetic value, i.e., टाप् is  
different from चाप् and डाप्, where the markers do have function;  
whereas when description for the general "आप्" affix is provided, that  
applies to all three affixes.

टु the beginning-marker in verb-roots such as टुवेपृ (marker टु +  
वेप् = marker ऋ), signifies that to form a qualitative noun from that  
verb root, the affix अथुच् may be added, e.g., वेपथु:  
(N.B. : टु by itself, not in the context of a verb-root in the  
dhAtupATha, is not a marker. It is "ट्+marker उ", please see  
explanation for the marker उ.)

ठ् not a marker, but a shorthand for इक् (ठ = ठ्+अ = इक्+अ = इक),  
e.g., रेवती + ठ(marker क्) = रैवत् + इक = रैवतिक (progeny of रेवती).  
ठ् (marker) has been proposed by पतञ्जलि to fix some algorithmic  
issues.

ड् when this marker is present in a affix there is elision, i.e., लोप  
of the last vowel of the stem and any consonants that may follow it.  
E.g., डति (marker ड्+अति); किम् + डति = क्(इम् elided)+ अति = कति  
(meaning "how many/how much")

डु the beginning-marker in verb-roots such as डुकृञ् (marker डु + कृ +  
marker ञ्), signifies that to form a qualitative noun from this verb-  
root, the affix त्रिम may be added, e.g., कृत्रिम

ढ् not a marker, but a shorthand for एय् (ढ = ढ्+अ = एय्+अ = एय),  
e.g., शिला + ढ = शिल् + एय = शिलेय (like a rock)

ण् when this marker is present in a affix, it causes वृद्धि change to  
the preceding vowel, or for the penultimate अ of the stem; if it  
happens to be a तद्धित (non-case affixes that attach to nominals),  
then the वृद्धि change is at the the first vowel of the stem. Compare  
similarities and differences with the ञ् marker. In contrast to that  
marker, there is no specification of stress (उदात्त) in ण् -marked  
affixes.

त् (1) when this marker is present in a affix the vowel in that affix  
has a "circumflex", i.e., स्वरित stress pattern: a half-मात्रा period  
of high stress (उदात्त) followed by a non-stressed period. E.g., ण्यत्  
(marker ण् + य + marker त्) as in कृ + ण्यत् = कार् (वृद्धि change to  
the preceding vowel due to ण्) य = कार्य, the final vowel of which has  
the स्वरित stress pattern.  
त् (2) when this marker is present while naming a vowel, only the  
mentioned length of the vowel is being specified. Thus अत् specifies  
the short ह्रस्व version of अ only. If the marker is not present, the  
अ would specify all possible lengths of the vowel, i.e., अ आ and आ३

न् when this marker is present in a affix, it causes a placement of  
stress, i.e., उदात्त to the first vowel of the stem, e.g., वुन् (वु=अक  
+ न्) as in अर्जुन + वुन् = अर्जुनक (meaning a devotee of अर्जुन), the  
stress (उदात्त) being on the first vowel of the word. Compare  
similarities and differences with the ञ् marker. In contrast to that  
marker, there is no triggering of वृद्धि change in any of the vowels  
of the stem in न् -marked affixes.

प् when this marker is present in a affix the vowel in that affix has  
an unstressed अनुदात्त accent. There are knock-on effects of this  
fact, principally that it triggers a गुण change in the preceding vowel  
of the verb root (if the verb root happens to be directly preceding,  
and not obstructed by an interposed 'base').

फ् not a marker, but a shorthand for आयन् (फ = फ् + अ = आयन), e.g.,  
the affix फञ् (फ + ञ्) as in अश्व+फ(marker ञ् which signifies वृद्धि  
and stress on first vowel) = आश्वायन

म् when this marker is present on an augment, i.e., आगम, it signifies  
that the augment is to be inserted after the last vowel (and before a  
following consonant, if any). E.g., the augment नुम् (न् + उ-for-ease-  
of-pronunciation + marker म्).. A possible use of this augment is to  
verb roots that have the marker इ टुनदि (marker टु + नद्+ marker इ),  
there is an insertion of a nasal नुम् (न्) for much of the conjugation  
and derived words. नद्\<-नुम् = न+न्(inserted)+द् = नन्द् + affix for  
conjugation, derivation, etc.

यु not a marker, but a shorthand for अन. ; e.g., युच् (यु + marker च्)  
as in भूष् + युच् = भूष् + अन = भूषण (ornament)

र् when this marker is present in a affix, the penultimate vowel of  
the affix is stressed, i.e., उदात्त. This is worth marking only if  
there are three or more vowels in the affix. E.g., अनीयर् (अनीय +  
marker र्), the stressed, i.e., उदात्त vowel is the penultimate ई.  
Usage of this affix कृ+अनीय(र्) = करणीय

ल् when this marker is present in a affix (and it is a marker only in  
non-taddhita affixes, तद्धित being non-case affixes that attach to  
nominals), it indicates a stress उदात्त on the vowel of the stem  
preceding the affix. E.g., ण्वुल् (marker ण् + वु=अक + marker ल्);  
usage highlighting the speciality of marker-ल् : कृ + सन्  
(desiderative resulting in complex duplication of verb root, making  
marker ण् irrelevant) + ण्वुल् = चिकीर्ष् अक = चिकीर्षक, in this  
resulting word, the उदात्त stress is on the ई (of the syllable की),  
rather than being either within the termination, or on the vowel in  
the first syllable (चि).

वु not a marker, but a shorthand for अक ; e.g., ण्वुल् (marker ण् + वु  
+ marker ल्) as in कृ + ण्वुल् = कार्(वृद्धि triggered by marker ण् )  
+ अक = कारक (meaning : doer)

श् (1) verb affixes and bases with this marker are termed सार्वधातुक.  
They have many characteristics, e.g., the intermediary इ never appears  
in these. e.g., शप्, श्नु  
श् (2) when this marker is present in a substitution, the  
substitution is not for the last phoneme of the original but for the  
whole of the original. Compare with the function of marker ङ् (3)

ष् when this marker is present in a affix that results in a masculine  
word, the feminine form of the word is formed by the addition of the  
affix ङीष् , e.g., ष्वुन् (marker ष् + वु=अक + marker न्) as in खन् +  
ष्वुन् = खन् + अक = खनक (with stress on first vowel); the feminine  
being खनक + ङीष् (stressed) = खनकी (with the stress on the last vowel,  
which was contributed by the feminine affix).

स् when this marker is present in the affix, the stem is considered a  
पद, thus the sandhi happening between the stem and the affix are  
characteristic of the sorts of sandhi taking place between independent  
words, not characteristic of the conservative sandhi that usually take  
place within a word. E.g. the affix छस् (छ=ईय + स्) as in भवत् + छस् =  
भवत् + ईय = भवद् (a change characteristic of sandhis between separate  
words) + ईय = भवदीय (meaning "yours", respectful usage)

\- - -  
Footnote: Other than the unusual marker "अ" from the प्रत्याहारसूत्र  
"लण्", none of the other markers from the प्रत्याहारसूत्र are  
mentioned in this glossary. The final consonants of each of the  
प्रत्याहारसूत्र is a marker. If one of the non-marker letters is  
combined with one of the marker letters, the term stands for all of  
the non0marker letters in that range, inclusive of the first letter  
which was used in the term. e.g. consider part of the series ...  
हयवरट् ।५। लण् ।६। ञमङणनम् ।७। झभञ् ।८। ... one could take the non-  
marker य from सूत्र 5, and the marker ञ् from सूत्र 8, and join them  
to form the term यञ्. This term will stand for the group of non-marker  
letters that encompass the range, i.e., य, व, र, ल, ञ, म, ङ, ण, न, झ,  
भ.

