+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2012-06-13, 18:53:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Rcc73IJeX7Y)]]



Forwarded



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  

----- Forwarded Message -----  
**From:** K.V Gopalakrishna \<[gopalakr...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [4bra...@yahoogroups.com](); iyer123 \<[iye...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; pattar \<[pat...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; us brahmins \<[usbra...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; samskrita \<[sams...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 13 June 2012 3:55 PM  
**Subject:** Re: \[4brahmins\] Bhattatiri condemns Srirama  

  



Dear all,  
I must thank our beloved Peekayaarji for bringing up this topic for discussion,as it is possible that such a doubt can keep lurking in the mind of every reader of "Narayaneeyam" without finding an answer. Such discussion can help dispel such doubts and clear our minds, paving the way for better understanding of the activities of the Lord in His sportive incarnations and enhancement of Bhakti.  
  
In my opinion, a true bhakta like Bhattatiri can never condemn the Lord for any of His actioms. Going by what was in the mind of the poet when he composed the great devotional work, could be anybody's guess.  One should not forget that the poet was suffering from acute rheumatic pain and he was all the time praying to the Lord to free him from those afflictions. In this circumstance, when his mind was overflowing with Bhakti and pity for mother Sita, it is very unlikely that the emotion that could have passed through his mind would have been anything other than that of "pathos", let alone he could have been critical of the Lord's actions.   
  
Each one can interpret the expression " शिव शिव" in one's own way.  The Bhaktaranji commentator, i.e., my father late Brahmasri K.G. Vancheswara Sastry has interpreted it in the following way:  
(Translated into English):  
शिव शिव !== What a pity, what a pity!  
The commentary reads as follows:  
  
"O Lord! Accidentally, some scandalous gossip about Sita by some foolish common folk regarding her stay at a stranger's place happened to reach Your ears. In order to stop this gossip, You did not hesitate to abandon her. It is surprising that You forsook Sita, who was in an advanced stage of pregnancy, completely forgetting how she followed You to the forest , and how You wandered in the thick forest aggrieved at her separation and all the effort You undertook to regain her from the clutches of Ravana. The scandalous remarks of people regarding the purity of Sita who had stayed in the enemy's place, and also regarding the fire ordeal that took place later, were completely baseless and unwarranted."  
  
Now let us look at the last sloka of the dasakam  
सोऽयं मर्त्यावतार: तव खलु नियतं मर्त्य-शिक्षार्थमेवं  
विश्लेषार्तिर्निराग: त्यजनमपि भवेत् काम-धर्मातिसक्त्या।  
नो चेत् स्वात्मानुभूते: क्व नु तव मनसो विक्रिया चक्रपाणे  
स त्वं सत्वैकमूर्ते पवनपुरपते व्याधुनु व्याधितापान् ।।१०।।  
*Meaning:*  
(O Lord! This human embodiment of Yours is verily, to instruct mankind that by extreme attachment and adherance to Kaama (desire) and to dharma (righteousness), the sorrow of separation and abandonment of innocents also will definitely happen in this manner (as demonstrated by You). 
Otherwise, how could there be a change (modification) of the mind for You who have the direct perception of the Self?  O Lord of Guruvayur! O Wielder of the discus----also the Wheel of Time (Kaala-chakra) !  O Embodiment of pure Sattva-guna! May You of such nature, destroy all my afflictions!)  
  
The Bhaktaranjini commentary has the following to offer-------  
Quote:  
"O Lord! This (अयं) incarnation just demonstrated to us, assumingthe form of a human being by You of such nature (स:), (who is beyond the realm of Maaya and whose glory is beyond the comprehension of even gods like Brahma and others) is nothing different from what an actor would do on the stage, after having donned the garb for a particular role.  
  
"This is definitely not similar to the birth of a human being who is subservient to Maya and who is left with no choice other than to come to this world depending upon his past deeds.  If so, why did the Lord incarnate on the stage of this world theatre donning a human form? The answer is simple.  It is purely to instruct the common people who are caught in the pursuit of the objects of worldly existence, viz., Dharma, the letter of the law and Kama (desire) and are whirling in the endless cycle of transmigration, taking birth after birth again and again in this world.   
  
The second quarter of the sloka brings out what these instructions are:  
"It is not good to have excessive attachment to, or interest in the transitory objects pertaining to Dharma and Kama.  If one is attached too much to Kama which gives only temporary pleasure, it will lead to great sorrow of separation from dear ones.  Though adhering to the codes of conduct (righteousness and virtue) is really good, excess of this will also lead to forsaking innocent ones.  Rama had to undergo the sorrow of separation from Sita first at Panchavati where she was abducted by Ravana, and a second time in Ayodhya after the coronation, when she was forsaken.  The sorrow was purely because of Rama's excessive desire for Sita.  Similarly, Rama had to forsake Lakshmana also, though he had not erred by thought, word or deed!  This too was because of Rama's great attachment to righteousness and code of conduct.
  
  
\>\> One should not conclude that the Lord also, like common people, is excessively attached to these two objects of worldly existence.  The all-merciful Lord had just acted these roles only to show us the effects of such attachments!  On the other hand, if we think that the Lord also suffered these sorrows bound to this world just like ordinary human beings under the spell of illusion, then another question that rises is, how did the emotions of Rajas (activity) and Tamas (ignorance and lethargy) occur in the Lord's mind?  "मन एव मनुष्याणां कारणं बन्ध-मोक्षयो:।" (Panchadasi--6,68 and Brahmabindu Upanishad.2) (The mind alone is the cause of bondage and release.)  When the mind is excited by Rajas or Tamas, it is bound. When there is no change in the mind due to Rajas and Tamas, it is free.  So say the learned. The Lord does not need Kama or Dharma to revel. He is Aatma-rama who revels in himself. He is Eternal Bliss personified.  That being the case, how can there be change in His mind due to Rajas orTamas?  When the mind is calm, exhibiting no change, how can it be bound in the ignorance of this world? How can the Lord who is Bliss Himself, feel great sorrow due to separation from Sita?  Is "Time" capable of affecting the Lord who controls the Wheel of Time (Kala-chakra) at His will, having it on His hand (the Sudarsana Chakra)?  Desire, passion, anger and the like are nothing but manifesttion of Rajas and Tamas.  How can they affect the Lord who is devoid of attributes, who is beyond the realm of Maya, who is not bound by action and who is pure Sattva-guna in form? How can the Lord be bound by previous deeds because of which one is born in a woman's womb when He Himself dwells internally as the essence of all living beings ? --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Taking all this into account, as said earlier, what else can we presume except that the Lord assumed this illusive human form in this incarnation, only to advise the common people ?  
  
Unquote.  
  
Does the commentary sound illogical?  Does not the poet vindicate himself from any doubts that could arise in the minds of his readers that he has criticised the Lord ?  It is for us to sit in judgement!  
  
Regards  
K.V. Gopalakrishna  
Co-author of the English version of Bhaktaranjini commentary  
and Managing Truste, The Bhaktaranjini Trust.  
website: [www.narayaneeyam.com](http://www.narayaneeyam.com)  
  
Peekayarji, Kindly forward my rejoinder to these two groups to which I am not subscribed:  
us brahmins \<[usbra...@yahoogroups.com]()\>,  
samskrita \<[sams...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
  
2012/6/11 P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\>  
\>  
\>   
\>  
\>  
\> Bhattathiri condemns Rama for abandoning pregnant Sita  
\> after hearing comments about her character.  
\>  
\> Narayaneeyam Dasakam 35 Sloka 8 Line 2  
\>  
\> मैथिल्यां पापवाचा शिव शिव किल तां गर्भिणीमभ्यहासीत्  
\>  
\>   
\> -----------------------------------  
\> P.K.Ramakrishnan  
\> <http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  
\>  
\>  
  
  
  
  
--  
न कर्मणा न प्रजया धनेन त्यागेनैके अमृतत्वमानशु:\|  
परेण नाकं निहितं गुहायां विभ्राजते यद्यतयो विशन्ति\|\|  
  
कृष्णेति मंगलम् नाम यस्य वाचि प्रवर्तते \|  
भस्मीभवन्ति तस्याशु महापातककोटयः \|\|  
കൃഷ്ന്നെതി മംഗളം നാമ യസ്യ വാചി പ്രവര്‍ത്തതേ        
ഭസ്മീഭവന്തി തസ്യാശു മഹാപാതകകൊടയ:  .  

\_\_.\_,\_.\_\_\_

[Reply to sender]() \| [Reply to group]() \| [Reply via web post](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/4brahmins/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJyaDNkNzE5BF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzE0NTE3NTc1BGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRtc2dJZAMyNjc1NwRzZWMDZnRyBHNsawNycGx5BHN0aW1lAzEzMzk1ODMxMDQ-?act=reply&messageNum=26757) \| [Start a New Topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/4brahmins/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJmamUxNnJsBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzE0NTE3NTc1BGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRzZWMDZnRyBHNsawNudHBjBHN0aW1lAzEzMzk1ODMxMDQ-)

[Messages in this topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/4brahmins/message/26739;_ylc=X3oDMTM3aDY4aDRtBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzE0NTE3NTc1BGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRtc2dJZAMyNjc1NwRzZWMDZnRyBHNsawN2dHBjBHN0aW1lAzEzMzk1ODMxMDQEdHBjSWQDMjY3Mzk-) (2)

Recent Activity:

[Visit Your Group](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/4brahmins;_ylc=X3oDMTJmbzU0NmttBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzE0NTE3NTc1BGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRzZWMDdnRsBHNsawN2Z2hwBHN0aW1lAzEzMzk1ODMxMDQ-)

Switch to: [Text-Only](), [Daily Digest]() • [Unsubscribe]() • [Terms of Use](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)

.

  

\_\_,\_.\_,\_\_\_

  
  

