+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2021-10-14, 19:02:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/HZPl5q5qf-4)]]



``Dear All,



Greetings and Namaste. Navaratri (Dasara) is just two weeks away and is perhaps the most celebrated occasion across India next to Deepavali. As Navaratri celebrates Devi in the form of Durga, Lakshmi and Saraswati, I have pleasure in sharing some of the very rare and very sacred stutis on each of them.



**Stotras Attached**

1. **Durga Stotram - Brahma Vaivarta Puranam** - a rare and very potent stuti on Durga by Lord Krishna

2. **Mangala Chandika Stotram - Brahma Vaivarta Puranam** - another Stotram from the same purana which again is considered very potent to ward off evils.

3. **Devi Panjara Stuti- Skanda Puranam** - **One of the most powerful stutis ever (as I have read).** This stuti is said to nullify all misfortunes and fears.

4. **Sri Lakshmi Stavam - Brahma Vaivarta Puranam** - one of the several several Lakshmi Stutis in Brahma Vaivarta Puranam but considered a powerful one.

5. **Sri. Padma Kavacham - Brahma Vaivarta Puranam** - A very rare Lakshmi Kavacham and the phalashruti should stand proof to its efficacy.

6. **Sri. Saraswati Stotram - Markandeya Puranam** - a very rare Saraswati Stotram

7. **Sri. Saraswati Stotram - Samba Puranam** - a short prayer which can be used by all, especially students.

8. **Sri. Saraswati Kavacham - Devi Bhagavatam** - one of the two rare Saraswati Kavachams.



**Tamil Versions**

1. One of the most frequest requests from the distribution list is to furnish the stotras in Tamil. As I mentioned before, the difficulty was more technical.

2. I am thankful to my new acquaintance Mr. Vinod Rajan who has developed a wonderful transliteration tool (Aksharamukha) using which I have transliterated all the stotras in Tamil ( - TAM extensions for the file names).

3. I also thank Sri. Nanduji and Sridhar Seshagiri for making the introductions in the past two weeks which made this possible.



**As usual a few snippets on Durga/Lakshmi/Saraswati/Navaratri:**



1. Though there aretwo Navaratris per year (Sharada Navaratri and Vasanta Navaratri) in 6-month intervals, the latter is not very much in vogue today.



**Durga**

1. Though Devi has several forms, Durga also has several forms such as Navadurga (which again has different variations), Shiva Durga, Vishnu Durga, etc. etc.

2. Durga perhaps has a lot of hymns - dozens of ashtottarams, Sahasranamas, Trishatis and stotras. I am aware of at least about 8-10 Durga Sahasranamas. If we include Kali, Kali has close to a dozen more Sahasranamas (Kali, kakArAdi kAlI, guhya kAlI, medhA sAmrAjya prada kalI, etc.)

3. It is very rare to find a temple without Durga but there are a few famous where Durga shrine is very famous - e.g. Patteeswaram Durga, Kadiramangalam Vanadurga, Banashankari, etc.



**Lakshmi**

1. Lakshmi also has several Stutis - I am aware of at least 4-5 ashtottarams and at least 4 sahasranamas. If we include other forms such as Radhika, Sita, Yamuna, etc. it will be close to a dozen (as I know now). There is a very rare Sahasranama for Radhika in Krishna Yamala which contains 1800 names - a very unique stotra indeed.

2. Padma Puranam apparently has a very rare Sahasranama called **Ashtadashabhuja Mahalakshmi Sahasranama.** I have a namavali but can't find the Sahasranam per se in the Padma purana moola.

3. There are at least a dozen Kavachas for Lakshmi (many more if we include other forms).

4. There are several temples where Lakshmi shrine is prominent - e.g. Velloor, Adikeshava Perumal Temple (Mylapore), Goravanahalli (near Nandi Hills), Mahalakshmi (Bombay), Kolhapur, etc.



**Saraswati**

1. Saraswati Stutis are not that many compared to the other two. There are two Ashtottarams, one Trishati and at least two Sahasranamas. There are a few tantric forms such as Matangi, Rajamatangi, Shyamala, Rajashyamala and Nilasaraswati and each of them have one or more Sahasranamas.

2. There are at least 2 Kavachas for Saraswati one of which is attached.

3. As per Brahma Vaivarta Puranam, Saraswati and Ganga are consorts of Lord Vishnu.

4. Saraswati worship is prevalent in most of Asia including Japan, Indonesia, Thailand, etc.



Best wishes for an eventful Navaratri.  

[Saraswati kavacam Devi bhagavatam Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1a7azVMnURnTAp2lEZk7KvLIVY_NlViuk/view?usp=sharing)

[Saraswati kavacam Sanskrit](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1l6kvCJZcSI2wnULRE0pgeRnoxZqGhtcF/view?usp=sharing)  

[Sarasvati stuti -Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DcO5ujauNkMjufcZcE2sfznQuUlJHqe9/view?usp=sharing)  

[Saraswati stuti - Samskrutam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_nACq2HXdK8IrqhhI_BBxMgQV-ldEeJe/view?usp=sharing)  

[Saraswati stotra- Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GGL7V64HT2mpxwOyOhMoC27c3om5IyZy/view?usp=sharing)  

[Saraswati stotra - Sanskrit](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rU0wfEpmGQahT4I7QGZJQQq9XFpAa-6E/view?usp=sharing)  

