+++
title = "013 q885"

+++
[[q885	2018-11-20, 09:30:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/izcmGMNF1RM)]]



I know there have been a lot of replies to this query, and I'm not sure if my input will be at all enlightening, but I thought I would give it a shot.

  

Saṁskr̥ta was never intended to be non-intuitive. There was a time when there was no Prākr̥tā vāk. Saṁskr̥ta was once a spoken language even of the common people. They didn't need to learn it in order to speak it any more than a native English speaker needs English classes to speak English.

  

Plenty of native English speakers will say things such as "This one is more heavier". (It should be "This one is heavier" or "This one is more heavy".) From a prescriptivist viewpoint "more heavier" is incorrect.
From a descriptivist viewpoint, any forms are acceptable so long as the meaning is easily understood.

  

In Pāṇini's time, the common people of the Āryāvarta spoke various Prākr̥tas (in Pāṇini's time most likely largely mutually intelligible).
Their ancestors had spoken Saṁskr̥ta, but as more and more "incorrect" forms were imitated and passed down through the generations, Prākr̥ta was born.

  

Even a native speaker of Prākr̥ta would have had trouble understanding Vēdas at that time.

  

Recognizing that the language of the common people was not as clear as Saṁskr̥ta, and fearing that the forms of proper speech might be forgotten, scholars set about describing the proper forms of the language.

  

As has been mentioned, Pāṇini was not the first grammarian. The earliest surviving texts describing sandhi, such as the R̥g-Vēda-Prātiśākhya, were dedicated to proper recitation of Vēdas. Over time, people created more and more complete and more and more concise descriptions of the language until finally, Pāṇini came along and made a complete description of the proper speech of his time.

  

Why, in English, do we say "he went" instead of "he goed"? Doesn't that make it less intuitive? Such is the case with Śambhu -> Śambhau. Why do we say that an "i" is being appended? Because of forms such as vanē (vana+i) andsati (sat+i). It's more concise to give a general rule and then list the exceptions.

  

My 2¢.



