+++
title = "002 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2019-08-01, 16:24:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/ZZiBpg4oR74)]]



Please contact Mr.Govindan Achaari at Tennur, Trichy( vandi kaaran stop) He is a gem & makes all musical instruments. I got my harmonium repaired with perfect sruti sutham.

Unfortunatley I dont have his contact details.

<https://www.indiamart.com/saraswathi-musicals/our-team.html>  

  

But this is what I got from justdial

  

# Saraswathi Musicals in Tennur, Trichy

Saraswathi Musicals in Trichy. Musical Instrument Dealers with Address, Contact Number, Photos, Maps. View Saraswathi Musicals, Trichy on Justdial.

Founded in the year 1970, Saraswathi Musicals in Tennur, Trichy is amongst the recognised and eminent dealers for a variety of musical instruments. As a time-served player in the music industry, it has developed a repute for retailing in various kinds of musical instruments and accessories. This is one-stop shop for a wide segment of musical instruments and equipments and urge to meet the ever-growing needs of the musicians, locally and nation-wide. This establishment is passionately involved in the business and keeps introducing new and enhanced equipments to diversify their product range whilst catering to the requirements of music lovers and performers. Holding quality as paramount, this retailer is known for stocking quality guitars, drum kits, keyboards, recording equipment and accessories. You can find this dealer on Tennur in Tennur. It stands at a noticeable location Tennur . You can reach out to this musical instrument dealer on the following contact numbers: [+(91)-431-2742908](tel:+91%20431%20274%202908).

**Services offered by Saraswathi Musicals**

For the convenience of their customers, the products at Saraswathi Musicals in Tennur are broadly classified as the guitars, guitar pedals/ effects, keyboards and ACC, recording gear, AMPS, strings, guitar accessories, drums/ percussions and cymbals. The range features the popular products of celebrated manufacturers and brands such as Fender, Alhambra, Ibanez, Cort, Hofner, Takamine, Taylor, Walden, C.F. Martin, B.C. Rich, Dean, ESP, Godin, Greg Bennett, Zildjian, Line 6 and many more. To help you with your purchase are sales staff who are knowledgeable of the product range and make recommendations as per your need and requirement. You can visit this store from 09:00-16:00 - 14:00-20:00 from Mondays to Saturdays. Cash are accepted.

Please scroll up to view the address and the contact details of Saraswathi Musicals in Tennur, Trichy.

  
On Thursday, 1 August 2019 06:49:39 UTC+5:30, Raama wrote:



