+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2020-01-06, 19:27:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/lPtPMFvyBGo)]]



  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Ardra Darshanam**, one of the two most important occasions in the month of **Margashirsha** (**Dhanus**), falls on 10-Jan-2020, I am delighted to share a very short and beautiful prayer on **Lord Rudra** by **Shankukarna** taken from **Sri Kurma Puranam and Chapter 31**. The brief **Phalashruti** mentions that this exquisite prayer is known by the name **Brahmapara Stavam** and one who recites this hymn in the morning and afternoon with devotion will get absolved of their sins and attain the abode of Lord Shiva.

  

Though **Kurma Purana** is a **Vaishnavite purana**, it perhaps contains more hymns on **Lord Shiva** than **Lord Narayana**. The second canto of this purana is known as **Rudra Gita** where the cosmic form and **paratattva** of **Lord Shiva** is elaborated. This purana also has dozens of citations on the equality **Lord Vishnu** and **Lord Shiva**. There are several prayers where **Lord Shiva is worshipped as Lord Narayana**. In Chapter 25, **Lord Krishna** declares thus:

  

**na me viprAsti kartavyaM nAnAvAptaM kathañcana \| pUjayAmi tathApIshaM jAnan etata paraM shivam \| 56 \|\|**

**na vai pashyanti taM devaM mAyayA mohitA janAH \| tato.ahaM svAtmano mUlaM GYApayan pUjayAmi tam \|\| 57 \|\|**

**na ca liñgArcanAt puNyaM loke.asmin bhIti-nAshanaM \| tathA liñge hitAyaiShAM lokAnAM pUjayec Chivam \|\| 58 \|\|**

**yo.ahaM tal li\~ngaM ityAhur veda vAda vido janAH \| tato.ahaM AtmAnaM IshAnaM pUjayAmyAtmnaiva tu \|\| 59 \|\|**

**tasyaiva paramA mUrtis tanmayo.ahaM na saMshayaH \| nA.avayor vidyate bhedo vedeShvevaM vinishcayaH \|\| 60 \|\|**

***  
***

***Meaning : Though there is nothing that needs to be done by me but I do worship Lord Shiva. People swayed by Maya don't understand the Sakshatkara of Lord Shiva. In this universe, there is no greater worship than Lingarchana which can destroy karma. Therefore people should perform Lingarchana. Those who are adept in Siddhantas understand that Linga is my Svarupa only and therefore I worship myself. Lord Shiva is the Parama Murthy and I am Shiva-svarupa and let there be no doubt. Vedas declare that there is no difference between us. Therefore people should constantly meditate on Lord Shiva.***

  

Do we need to say more? Can there be a more pellucid thrashing of the sectarian absurdities we see today ?

  

May We Pray Lord Shiva who is Lord Narayana with this beautiful prayer.

  

With best regards and pranams,

K. Muralidharan Iyengar (Murali

  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XSG94NXNjSDZqaUlfX21kdnUyNDBXNWQ2OXJr)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XblJub3lnaWF5aG16SV9JQk1BU3U2ZnF4ZWJZ)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XMXhtb25pOFhGeWs5eW5IQklmb001bE44NkpR)  

[Gujarati](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5Xd3dwVXQ2Ym9UYUREX1ZnU3hnWkN4MGhPa0xV)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XUmR4TnNUV1kteDN6UjNRRGMxdmt6TmZQaUNn)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XczBla3BPZkFMN211dDAxN3hXT1hudXRtWUpR)  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XNF8yeFNySlRoNE9mZVZablVHWE5ud2FWWUg0)  

