+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2020-04-21, 17:25:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/1uOSRsx-_uY)]]



  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Akshaya Tritiyai** falls on **Sunday, the 26th of April 2020**, I am very cautiously delighted to share this very rare hymn titled **Sri Shulini Sumukhikarana Stuti**, taken from **Shulini Kalpam**.  

  

As we all know, **Shulini Durga** is one of the fiercest (**Krura**) forms of **Durga** and therefore ***Upasana on Shulini Durga form is strictly for the initiated and not for the ordinary folks like us***. It is said that any inappropriate upasana on Krura forms produces adverse effects. So, I was very very hesitant to share this hymn for the past 2-3 weeks.  

  

But I think general **Shulini Durga** worship is not uncommon - **Patteeswaram** is one of the most prominent temples in the South India located about 6 kms from **Kumbakonam** town. Though it is a **Shiva** temple, the main attraction is **Patteeswaram Durga** whose form is said to be **Shulini Durga**. It is said that **Lord Rama** prayed in this temple en route Sri Lanka. Millions throng this temple. The **Chola Kings** are said to have continuously worshiped Her.  

  

**Shulini Durga** is said to be **Krura Devata** because She destroys the evil mercilessly. But She is said to extremely kind to Her true devotees. I read somewhere that when one goes through very adverse and really treacherous Rahu/Ketu/Saturn periods/transits, **Shulini Durga Homa** is the last resort to nullify all the evil effects. But we should not think this yet another homa where mantra can be read from a book. Only the qualified (who are very rare to find) can do this homa. Shulini Kalpam contains several mantra combinations and prayoga which ordinary people should not even touch.  

  

Today, the world is going through one of most deadliest phases of human existence due to Corona virus. Millions have been infected and more than 100,000 have died. The world economy has had a screeching halt in the last 2 months and there is no sign immediate revival. People are now extremely fearful of not only their lives but also livelihoods after this lock-down. If this situation continues for another month, it will be much worse than a nuclear holocaust. A horrendous situation we are going through.

  

That's why I thought, after much hesitation, to share this hymn which prays to Shulini Durga to show Her benign face and best the 4 important things sought in this prayer - wealth, disease-free long life, fulfillment of rightful desires, all of which are extremely critical at this juncture. Akshaya Trityai is a day when we pray for abundance and therefore the right occasion to make this prayer. But I would recommend you to consult your elders and learned whether or not to recite this hymn.  

  

The ensuing Akshaya Tritya will go down in history as one of the most unusual Akshaya Trityai - with jewelry shops not being able to play their usual marketing gimmick. Jewels can wait as now have been forced to go back to the basics of human existence.  

  

May We Pray to **Goddess Shulini Durga** to show us Her kind face, slay the Corona asura with her divine weapons and Help us rebuild our lives without forgetting the lessons She wanted us to learn through this dreadful experience.  

  

With best regards & pranams,

  

K. Muralidharan Iyengar (Murali)

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NhmXyi4XIiyoAP_GFIEpvMU6TB9pHTGa/view?usp=sharing)  

[Gujaratai](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TBScPssn67qMIi-1hYb33rflozQZoD54/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XzYnO7PFkE5B_HYMgrvp6nZpw3Qk8LaT/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17PoGBkTSJSCZxAaj2dCE3KNoK3cKrCnp/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bTa_QKtJVLjH7lggA2QVrUSdwlmZXFJa/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bTa_QKtJVLjH7lggA2QVrUSdwlmZXFJa/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n_s7KjRk9DDhW7t_y2pEf5yrZ0nWCHZJ/view?usp=sharing)  

  

