+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2012-09-16, 16:31:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/3qy7dU13yq0)]]



  

Devanagari (lipi)

  

Many still refer to this as Nagari lipi.

It was first used in a place called Nagar.

‘Nagar was formerly a princely state which had existed for 1200 years.The two grandsons of shri bidat ruler of hole Gilgit Maghlot became the king of Nagar and Kirkis became the king of Hunza after death of shri bidat independently. The people of Nagar were ruled by a local Tham/Mir for more than 1200 years, until the states were dissolved in 1974.’

It was therefore called Naagari.

Nagar is a place in old India now in Pakistan.

Naagari was used for writing Sanskrit.

Sanskrit was called Deva-bhasha.

So Naagari became Deavanaagari.

  

There could be other places having the name nagar.

But it must be related to the type of writing which

originated there.

  

There are several lipis in which Sanskrit can be

written. One such is Grantha.

  

So Devanaagari refers to the type of writing.

  

In Nagar the material on which this writing was

done was the bark of birch tree. It is called

bhuurja tvak भूर्जत्वक् in Sanskrit.

The material by which the writing was done was

mashi मषि or ink.

A piece of wood was used to take out the ink

and apply it on the bark.

This produced a thick line both vertical or horizontal.

l or \_\_\_ producing letters like प or क.

This lipi was accepted by those who wanted to write

Maraatti and Hindi.

Others modified this to write Gujarati, Bengali etc.

To write Odiya the form was modified a bit since

birch bark was not available in Odissa but only palm

leaves. The following is a comparison between writing

on birch bark and palm leaf.

jayadeva जयदेव devanagari

jayadeva ଜଯଡଭ oriya.

The same is the reason why grantha lipi is used in

Tamil Nad instead of Devanagari.

Both Tamil lipi and Grantha lipi were written on palm leaves.

This means – the medium decides the script.

  

Throwing open this view for discussion.



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

