+++
title = "000 q885"

+++
[[q885	2018-05-05, 07:51:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/fme68TOKX5g)]]



Namō vaḥ Saṁskr̥ta-paṇḍitāḥ,

  

I am interested in the use of the word "yāvat" in the Heart Sūtra.

  

Here's an excerpt:

Na cakṣuḥ-śrōtra-ghrāṇa-jihvā-kāya-manāṁsi, na rūpa-śabda-gandha-rasa-spraṣṭavya-dharmāḥ \|

न चक्षुःश्रोत्रघ्राणजिह्वाकायमनांसि, न रूपशब्दगन्धरसस्प्रष्टव्यधर्माः ।

Na cakṣur-dhātur yāvan na manō-dhātuḥ \|\|

न चक्षुर्धातुर्यावन्न मनोधातुः ॥

(Somerecensions have manō-vijñāna-dhātuḥ मनोविज्ञानधातुः)

  

The Saṁskr̥ta version is most likely a translation of an earlier Classical Chinese version. See[Jan Nattier's paper](http://silkqin.com/02qnpu/40tyxs/ty28nattier.pdf)if you're interested in why I believe that.

  

Nattier's translation of the Chinese version has:

"No eye, ear, nose, tongue, body \[or\] mind; No form, sound, smell, taste, touch-object \[or\] mind-object (dharma);

No eye-realm (and so on up to) no realm of mind-consciousness;"

Thich Nhat Hanh gives:  

"The Eighteen Realms of Phenomena which are the six Sense Organs, the six Sense Objects, and the six Consciousnesses are also not separate self entities."

  

It seems to me that the implication is that there is nocakṣur-dhātu, no śrōtra-dhātu, no ghrāṇa-dhātu, no jihvā-dhātu, no kāya-dhātu and no manō-dhātu (in śūnyatā).

  

But a friend informed me that this is not a typical function of the word "yāvat". I've looked around online and I can't find anywhere giving the meaning of "up to and including" for this word.

  

So I am wondering whether this is an established use of this word. Are there other texts that use "yāvat" (especially without "tāvat") in this way?

  

Thank you

