+++
title = "004 q885"

+++
[[q885	2018-05-07, 04:10:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/fme68TOKX5g)]]



बहवो धन्यवादा लेखात्,

  

Forgive my poor Saṁskr̥ta, but does it mean something like:

"As long as one has the power to acquire wealth, for that long one's family will be enamored."?  
  
If so, then this is, as I understand it, the standard usage of यावत्/तावत्. Roughly "just as much as" in English.

  

The usage I'm interested in is where a list is implied by stating the first item of the list, the word यावत्, and the last item of the list, without तावत्.

  

Is it possible that this word had never been used in this way before?
That the translator, thinking in Classical Chinese, simply made a poor choice of word?

  

There is another part where it uses the term "अमिथ्यत्वात्" rather than "अमिथ्यात्वात्". All the recensions I have found have this form. I understand मिथ्या is derived from√मिथ्, and could be viewed as an adjective that could have a masculine or neuter form, but I haven't found anywhere else where मिथ्यात्व is spelled this way.

  

I hope I haven't offended anyone, and I'm aware that this may be hubris on my part. I have committed the sūtra to memory and I recite it every day, so I'm not trying to knock it. I just wanted to get the opinions of people with greater knowledge than mine.

  

Thank you











> 
> > 
> > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to samskrita+...@googlegroups.com. >
> 
> > 



