+++
title = "007 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2016-03-05, 04:11:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/bMufDmp8JMg)]]



I had a [comment](https://grammarofsanskrit.wordpress.com/2016/03/03/phonetics-and-phonology-in-sanskrit/#comments) on the article of mine from "lastphonetic" ! Now I realize that it was from "ken p" ! I replied as below -

"...Dear “lastphonetic” !

(1) Haven’t I given so many examples how different pronunciations of अ itself are meaningful ? I could not have given examples of all 18 pronunciations of all vowels.  
(2) Just as you prefer “.. dot free write as you pronounce non lengthy worded Sanskrit…”, I prefer to write Sanskrit in Devanagari, संस्कृत in देवनागरी. I am more than convinced that writing any language in its script eliminates all ambiguity. If I have to write Chinese or Japanese, I shall write them in their scripts. I think even Chinese and Japanese also prefer only that way. ..."

Now I would extend my comment to add -

(3)People do have preferences like calling themselves "lastphonetic" or "ken p".

\(4\) The question is - Should the people impose their personal preferences to say that anything different from their preferences irritates them ? Should they be allowed to impose ? Moderator may please consider.

\(5\) Speaking of Chinese language and transliteration, I had once noted that same spelling i.e. transliteration of a Chinese word can have disastrous different meanings, if the pronunciation is not appropriate to the intended meaning. 

\(6\) Even in English, why should the pronunciation गेऽट्have two different spellings, i.e. Roman transliterationsgate and gait ? Just as I should not transliterate gate or gait by one single
देवनागरी-transliteration, asगेऽट्, I should writegate or gait in Roman script only, by similar logic, I prefer to writeसंस्कृत in देवनागरी. Maybe, I should write it inclusive of phonetic notations as in Vedic texts 😣Fortunately, that is not necessary for classical Sanskrit.

(7) I do not basically understand all this fuss created by someone "lastphonetic", that too just by his whims of personal preferences, which do not even have "phonetic" or phonological logic, when viewed from my mention above of transliteration of Chinese words orदेवनागरी-transliteration, asगेऽट्.

I hope, the discussion stops here.



