+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2021-07-24, 08:08:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/qx7BOH6e5OE)]]



Dear all,  
  
We feel glad to announce a new traditional course on Sanskrit.  
\*Mahamahopadhyaya  
Vasudeoshastri Abhyankar Sanskrit Pathshala\* (established in 1885) and  
\*Bhandarkar  
Oriental Research Institute\* (established in 1917), have joined hands to  
conduct an online course on Vyakarana Shastra and Literature in the  
traditional manner. The 12-year course consisting of six levels,  
\*लघुसिद्धान्तरत्न\*\*, कौमुदीरत्न,\* \*मनोरमारत्न\*\*, शेखररत्न\*\*, \*\*महाभाष्यरत्न\*  
and \*व्याकरणरत्न\*, will be conducted completely free of cost.  
  
  
  
\*\*APPEAL FOR DONATION\*\*  
  
  
  
Even if the course does not charge any fees to the students, sufficient  
funds are still necessary to meet the expenditure required for giving  
substantial honorarium to the teachers, scholarship to eligible students  
and for providing online facilities etc. On this backdrop, we solicit  
active financial support of our well-wishers in ensuring the sustainable  
continuation of this much-needed learning initiative, which is nothing short  
of a Knowledge Sacrifice (ज्ञानयज्ञ).  
  
  
  
\*Account Details\*  
  
Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute  
  
SBI, Deccan Gymkhana Branch,  
  
A/c no 11100354557  
IFS Code SBIN0001110  
MICR Code 411002003  
  
  
We also request kind donors to mail their information such as Name,  
Address, PAN No. and Mobile No. on[acco...@boriindia.org]()for the purpose  
of 80 G (income tax benefit) receipt.  
  
  
\*Contact details:\*  
  
  
  
Mr. Sudheer Vaishampayan (Hon' Secretary): 09595704947  
  
Dr. Rohan Kulkarni: 09403984653

<https://www.bori.ac.in/>  

  

