+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2012-05-04, 08:53:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/LsYv-XhUFPk)]]



Forwarded.



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  

----- Forwarded Message -----  
**From:** HARIHARA SUBRAMANIAN \<[hsubram...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
**To:** "[iye...@yahoogroups.com]()" \<[iye...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; "[4bra...@yahoogroups.com]()" \<[4bra...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; "[usbra...@yahoogroups.com]()" \<[usbra...@yahoogroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Thursday, 3 May 2012 7:51 PM  
**Subject:** Re: A Sanskrit Centre Struglles to Stay Alive  

  

  



This is further to my appeal for financial assistance to A prestigious Sanskrit Institution posted on

27 Apr 2012



There were queries from some members on the mode of payment, application form and whether the books given by the Institute free would be sent to those living outside India etc



The reply received from the Institute on these points is appended below for information.



Copy of their Application Form for life Membership received from the Institute is also sent herewith as MS Word attachment.



The Institution will benefit a great deal if members of the Brahmin community contribute some amount in addition to the membership fee as donation.



Copy of theletter received from Samskruta Bharati Chennai requesting for financial help to this Institution is also sent herewith.



Dhanyavad



H. Subramanian





From: Kuppuswamy sastry reasearch institute \<[ksr...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** HARIHARA SUBRAMANIAN \<[hsubram...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 2 May 2012 12:54 PM  
**Subject:** Re: A Sanskrit Centre Struggles to stay Alive  
  
``

Dear Sir,

Thank you very much for your nice gesture to help the Institute.

1. Bank particulars for local donors

Our Name:THE KUPPUSWAMI SASTRI RESEARCH INSTITUTE.

Bank:     Union Bank of India, Mylapore Branch

Account No. 395702010007408

NEFT NO: UBIN0539571

IFSC CODE NO.600026009

2. Life subscription application is attached. It is only Rs.2000/-.
You will get the publications of the Institute free of cost from the year 2010.

Those who resides outside India can also become members. But they can collect the books only in person. whenever they come to Chennai. We cannot send them by post.

3. For donors who are in USA, UK Canaa etc. the bank details are

Our telephone number is 044-24985320 working hours 10.30 a.m. to 5.00 p.m.

***Name of the Account Holder: THE KUPPUSWAMI SASTRI RESEARCH INSTITUTE***

**PLEASE REMIT PROCEEDS TO**

**WACHOVIA BANK N.A., NEW YORK**

**SWIFT Address : PNBPUS3NNYC**

**CHIPS ABA : 0509 FED ROUTING No. : 026005092**

**FOR CREDIT TO A/C 2000193008506 OF**

**UNION BANK OF INDIA**

**UNION BANK OF INDIA OVERSEAS BRANCH CHENNAI**

**UBININBBAOMD**

**Our a/c. No. at the Mylapore branch :****39570201007619**

**With regards**

**V.Seethalakshmi**

**Accountant**



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From: samskrita bharathi \<[samskrita...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**To:** "[samskritabh...@yahoogroups.com]()" \<[samskritabh...@yahoogroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 25 April 2012 10:22 PM  
**Subject:** \[samskritabharatichennai\] Fw: In this new year - a great opportunity for Samskrita Seva  
  



Hari OM!



sarvebhyo namskaraH !



The forwarded message makes a sad reading - piercing the heart of every samskrita lover and abhimaanee.



What a sad state of affairs reflecting the pathetic metamorphosis caused by neglect and indifference of the powers that be- to Kuppuswamy Sastri Research Institute, Sanskrit College, Mylapore, Chennai, reportedly in dolldrums due to financial constraints! ``



A jolt to honest aspirations of every samskrita lover in the nook and corner of this small world, thereported ordealof thisinstitution of international repute and standing is bound totest the nerves of everySamskrita Abhimaanee. An honestintrospection from every individul who is proud of our language and culture will certainly open the gatesof moral and financial support that the great institution needs at this juncture.



kindly go through the message anddoextend your support and cooperation to help this great institution!



DhanyavadaH



SB Chennai













  
  

