+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2012-04-28, 07:27:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/ch7h6IAylZY)]]



Continued - how to contribute.



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  

----- Forwarded Message -----  
**From:** HARIHARA SUBRAMANIAN \<[hsubram...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
**To:** P.K. Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\>; "[aiy...@yahoo.com]()" \<[aiy...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Friday, 27 April 2012 7:02 PM  
**Subject:** Re: A Great Opportunity for Samskrita Seva  

  

  

Those who wish to contribute need not do so free of cost – It is sufficient to become a life-time member of this prestigious institution and receive publications from this institute free of cost for the life-time. Now, when you pay Rs. 2000/- and become a life member - you'll receive about 8 Hard-bound books free of cost - including 4 volumes of Mahabashyam of Sage Patanjali (the great vyaakarana treatise) in Sanskrit with English translation and a Old Sanskrit Bija Ganita (Algebra) treatise. But any sum contributed over and above this will be of much help to them in overcoming their present financial crisis.``  
Thus your contribution will help to save one of India's premier Sanskrit research institute and also you receive books free of cost.  
If, however, you think that their publications will not be of use to you in any way, you may kindly intimate the same to the Institute to enable them to avoid infructuous expenses on their side.  
  
Kindly send your contributions to: The Director, Kuppuswamy Sastri Research Institute, 84, Royapettah High Road, Mylapore, Chennai. Pin: 600004, Phone- 044-24985320

 Attn: Dr. K.S.Balasubramanian, Dy. Director



Dhanyavad

HS





  
  

