+++
title = "000 R. Śivarāmakṛṣṇa śarmā"

+++
[[R. Śivarāmakṛṣṇa śarmā	2013-08-06, 14:05:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/gK3PGry-_60)]]



Namaste,  
  

As far as I understand, there is mixed opinion of the development of Samyukta-Aksharas in early epigraphy or orthographic conventions.  
  

We have had discussions about the development of writing in India, but leaving that apart, I was curious to know if any scholar has had the opportunity to peruse pre 900AD Manuscripts. If so, is there the presence of stacking of conjunct consonants ? Most people in the field seem to suggest that stacking of consonants was introduced only during the Gupta period and reached common parlance only after Circa 900 AD. This is, as they say, attested by rock inscriptions of the pre-Gupta period which have no stacking even in Sanskrit inscriptions. This would mean that Sanskrit inscriptions in the pre-Gupta period would have been written in the same way conjunct consonants are written in Tamil today.  
  
To the best of my understanding none of the Vyakaranacharyas (Maharshi Panini, Katyayana or Patanjali) talk about writing conventions -- there are no sutras which describe convention of writing. As far as I know there is no hard-and-fast rule on writing in Sanskrit. Please correct me if I am wrong here.  
  
So this gives a whole new meaning to 'attested' in the case of a paper published by Ulrich Steihl (Attested Ligatures in Sanskrit).  
  

I've seen fascimiles of a few buddhist manuscripts in Siddhamatrika which clearly show the stacking of consonants one-atop-another. Infact, Siddhamatrika has very precise rules of stacking and ordering of consonants and a very accurate manual of the writing system. Thus one can but easily observe the high degree of concordance with manuscripts written in different geographic reigons or even at different points of time. That is to say, with a few exceptions of variant forms, generally speaking, the writing convention is very similar throughout manuscripts; . Siddhamatrika has not changed in a over a thousand years, which is in striking contrast to Nagari. This I cannot personally attest, but it is from the mouth of a few Tibetan Buddhist scribes.  
  
Two of the manuscripts were dated AD 850, one of them entitled 'Bajja Sutta' (Vajra Sutra - because inside it was {mostly} Sanskrit with bijaksharas etc. ?) but I was skeptical about its dating, given the high degree of refinement of the writing that was obvious in it. I may be wrong, but as I have seen the older the manuscript, the less refinement in the writing. But this may also have been a co-incidence that I have seen manuscripts written by scribes with not-so-good handwriting.  

  

Regards,  
R. Śivarāmakṛṣṇa Śarmā  
  
\|\| Tiruchitrambalam \|\|

