+++
title = "014 q885"

+++
[[q885	2018-11-13, 06:24:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/vYhbRIj6H04)]]



On Sunday, November 11, 2018 at 4:15:21 PM UTC-5, Taff Rivers wrote:

> 
> > 
> > 
> > You will need to know Hindi, to get any benefit. >
> 
> > 
> > 

I didn't see any Hindī on the page you posted. All of the Dēvanāgarī is Saṁskr̥ta.



> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Yes, the explanation is in English, but what is being explained is > only given in Hindi, in nagari. >
> 
> > 
> > Not a single Sanskrit word is transliterated, not in the contents > pages, not in the index pages. >
> 
> > 
> > 

By "what is being explained", do you mean the text after the numbers (1), (2), (3), etc.?

That is the Pāṇinī Sūtra. That is Saṁskr̥ta. You can find explanations of the Sūtras elsewhere.

  

What the (1) says after it is:

\(1\) *Vr̥ddhi* \[the name of the saṁjñā\] — *vr̥ddhir ād-aic* \[the sūtra itself\] (1.1.1) \[book.chapter.sūtra\] (*vr̥ddhiḥ* 1.1; *ād-aic* 1.1) \[the pada-pāṭha\]. *Āt* (*ā*) \[and\] *aic* (*ai* and *au*) are called Vr̥ddhi irrespective of the fact whether they themselves are formed by means of the sūtras as *ā* in *śālā*, *ai* in *aiśvaryaḥ* and *au* \[looks like an ō but probably an issue with the printing\] in *aupagavaḥ*.

The *italics* represent text that is written in Dēvanāgarī in the sample. Inside the \[brackets\] is my commentary.



> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  I have a hard copy of The Tested Easiest Method of Learning & > Teaching Sanskrit, 7th Edition. 1982 >
> 
> > 
> > The original is 60 years old. The original and subsequent amended > editions may well have been 'easiest' in them days. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Thus it turns out to be completely useless to anyone such as myself > who no more knows their Hindi than their Mandarin. >
> 
> > 
> > 

I'm surprised you haven't learned Dēvanāgarī. I myself prefer transliteration since I grew up with the Roman alphabet, but I couldn't imagine studying Saṁskr̥ta without being able to read and write in Dēvanāgarī. I don't think it's the most natural or most beautiful script for Saṁskr̥ta. I think Siddhaṁ fills that role (I can read it but I can't write it). But there is such a large corpus of Saṁskr̥ta texts that have been printed in Dēvanāgarī over the past 400 years that you are really limiting yourself if you don't learn it.

  

With Dēvanāgarī fonts you can learn the script very quickly. For a keyboard layout, I recommend learning INSCRIPT since it is pretty naturally set up and most operating systems support it natively. Keep a window open that shows you which IAST/ISO15919 characters correspond to the basic akṣaras. Keep another window opening with the INSCRIPT layout. Open notepad and just start typing and see how the characters combine. Just play with it for a little while and you'll start to pick it up.

  

Alternatively, you can play with Itranslator 2003. It has a weird input system that is similar to, but not as good as Harvard-Kyoto.



