+++
title = "008 Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare"

+++
[[Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare	2010-10-21, 23:00:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/foDAE7fQS9A)]]



Dear Shri.davejee  
 and all those who want to study "sanskRuta"  
 namaskaara.  
  
 shreemaan abhyankara mahodayajee has already explained to you his problems, as well as, recommendation **to learn sanskRuta in devanagaree Script**.  
  
 I fully agree with him and like to add that many Indian languages have a different svara vyanjana compositions (than devanaagaree).  
e.g. kannada has e, e\~ ai and o o\~ au  
 which is not there in sanskRuta and that causes some problems.  
  
 I also learn that, tamila has only k for k, kh, ga, gh etc.  
 A Tamilian may kindly correct me please.  
 Therefore when written in "tamil"  
 kaka, khaga, etc. will all be same in Script and difficult to differentiate in reading.  
  
 This is only to illustrate some additional problems that can come and not a particularly accurate way of putting it across.  
 I beg pardon of my inability of writing it correctly, but hope people will understand what I want to convey.  
  
 Further, much more Important thing is  
  "**Why should one Learn sanskRuta at all ?**"  
 If it is for shopping, it is almost of No_use (except in a village in karnataka and may be a few more elsewhere).  
 If it is for conveying your thoughts to others, even then hardly there are people who will understand it and respond.  
  
 **I had studied and would keep on studying the "sanskRuta" Language in order to Develop an Ability to  
 "Study and Understand the Ancient Texts"  
  directly without any madhavan & shankaran  
  or Max_mullar and Alexander  
    coming in between me (the learner)  
  and the Writers (Gods or Sages).  
 That is my Opinion.**  
 I beg pardon if it has offended any body.  
 But I thought of expressing my personal Opinion.  
  
 With regards and best Wishes,  
 Dr.Ghare, Thursday, 21st Oct. 2010, Portland, OR USA  
  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Thu, 21 Oct 2010 18:21:12 +0530  
Subject: Re: Request for \[Samskrita\] Learning Sanskrit by fresh approach, to be in English as well  
From: [sl.abh...@gmail.com]()  
To: [sams...@googlegroups.com](); [davis1...@yahoo.co.uk]()



