+++
title = "019 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2010-10-26, 00:39:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/foDAE7fQS9A)]]



Dear Mr. Dave,  
  
Ooph!! Your suggestion and my response to it generated so many interactions !!  
  
From the response below of yours, you seem to have hinted one more suggestion, that you would like the grammar also to be explained in English !!  
  
There are many more difficulties on this also. Just to sight one that comes to mind immediately - In Sanskrit there are totally ten moods and tenses I think it is really difficult to explain them properly in terminologies of English grammar.  
  
Mr. G. S. S. MURTHY gives explanations of ***The ten लकारs:***at his web-pages at ***<http://murthygss.tripod.com/dhaatumanjarI.htm>***  
  
Out of the ten, I am always confused about the three past tenses, especially the one "**लुङ्** (lu\~G): Grammarians call this Aorist." Just see, what Mr. Murthy says about it -  
  

9\. **लुङ्** (lu\~G): Grammarians call this Aorist. ( According to Concise Oxford Dictionary, past tense merely denoting occurrence without limitation as to duration etc.) Ex: अभूत्. It is generally used in dialogues and conversations which refer to recent past actions. Conjugation in लुङ् is quite complex and not easy to master. To the extent that a student has to recognize its conjugated forms in classics, he has to get familiar with it. However for compositions, he best avoids it.

I would also like to sight my mention, "...my honest and sincere advice to all serious students of Sanskrit will be to learn the script as well."  
  
Did I imply that one, who wants to learn Sanskrit without learning the script is not all that sincere in his wanting to learn Sanskrit ?  
  
Looking back at my having learnt English, I don't remember that I ever grumbled, that I had to learn a script which is so unscientific, to say the least -  

what with the vowels sprewn all over,

although the count of alphabets is said to be 26, but with smalls and capitals, they are actually 52 as far as learning the script is concerned !

-   When doing spellings of proper names to write Sanskrit in English
    script, one would always go askance, whether to use the initial
    capital or not. If one uses the capital, that can lead to an
    otherwise pronunciation ! I did say, there are difficulties. I did
    not want to enumerate all of them. Now, this one also comes to mind
    extempore !  

and the vowels and consonants do not get pronounced in any particular discipline all the time, so,

one has to learn the spellings also !  

-   As if that is not enough, now the Americans want to spell the words
    differently than the way the English would spell, although
    historically, English language originated with the English people.
    Since most computer software is dominated by the Americans, one will
    always get red underlining of all spellings, not conforming to the
    American spellings. Though, "very kindly" the software do allow the
    facility to activate the style of English !

  

Since Devanagari does not have any of such glitches, a serious student of Sanskrit should rather start learning Sanskrit by first learning the scientifically designed script, *most enthusiastically*. I contend that a sincere student would be enthusiastic also and not a complaining type.  
  
Sorry, if this sounds somewhat blunt. I did not want to be that blunt. That is why, in my previous response, I tried to say some things implicitly rather than explicitly.  
  
People have made observations about which transcription modes are good, etc. But frankly I think they miss the main point, of yours which started off all this. I think your point was - Sanskrit text in my lessons should be written in English script. What is in English is already in English. So, there is no problem on that, right ? To my naive understanding, transcription modes are employed to convert English typing to get converted into other scripts, not the other way around, although they can also serve that purpose.  
  
But, honestly, for myself, I am at a total loss to read Sanskrit if it is written with diacritics and all that. May be that is my fallibility. I would accept that. I have similar problem in reading Tamil. I always need to read every word twice :-( I have often seen cement being written as "chiment" So I read it first as "chiment". Then I realise "Oh, the writing is meant to be read "cement".. Should I keep complaining about it ? My difficulty is because, I have not practised reading Tamil enough. That is my fault.  
  
Basically, for me, as a person who is compsoing lessons in Sanskrit, if I am myself at discomfort with those diacritics and at discomfort in reading what I write, there is both a predicament and an embarrassment :-(  
  
I do not want myself to be in a mode of discomfort, predicament and embarrassment. And with Devanagari script the reading and writing is all so very clear, so much free of predicaments and embarrassments.  
  
On the whole, I would like to continue writing Sanskrit text in Devanagari script and Sanskrit grammar in Sanskrit terminology.  

  
Regards,  
सस्नेहम् ,  
अभ्यंकरकुलोत्पन्नः श्रीपादः \|  
"श्रीपतेः पदयुगं स्मरणीयम् ।"  
[http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com](http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com/)  
[http://slezall.blogspot.com](http://slezall.blogspot.com/)  
  
  



