+++
title = "023 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2010-10-26, 08:33:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/foDAE7fQS9A)]]



namaste Mr. Eddie Hadley,  
  
I am surprised by your comments  
  

1.  Since all my comments and the translations "anuvaadaaH" are always
    in English, does it not address the International audience ? In fact
    nothing of that is really for "only native Hindi speakers" ! 2.  You are branding me as a "Sanskritist, that give Sanskrit a bad
    name" simply because I write the Sanskrit text in Devanagari, I
    think it is the most logical thing to do. Why should one, writing
    Sanskrit text in devanagari be charged as one, bringing Sanskrit a
    bad name ? If Sanskrit is best written and best read in Devanagari,
    why should that practice bring a bad name to the whole language of
    Sanskrit ? 3.  I had it in my mind always, that by making explicit, what was
    implicit in my first response to Mr. Dave, I knew it well that some
    people will feel offended, when it becomes explicit. But the point
    is basically how, I think, a serious student should approach
    studying a language, especially a language like Sanskrit, which has
    its own beautiful script - what you speak, so you write, absolutely
    phonetic; no confusions of spelling and diacritics etc. If one wants
    to learn Greek, should not one learn the Greek alphabet also ? Or,
    if one wants to learn Arabic, should not one learn Arabic script
    also ? 4.  I can still attempt writing the Sanskrit text both in Devanagari and
    in transliteration. But I have already had difficulties, as I had
    mentioned right in my first response to Mr. Dave. Examples of my
    recent difficulties are writing नञ्-तत्पुरुषः I was able to do it
    comfortably by using BARAHA. But I do not know how I would spell it
    in English.

  

In Lesson 68 I had to write  
तीर्त्वा “tRU ” १ प. (= to cross over) इति धातुः \|  
I do not have BARAHA on hand on this laptop. So, it is left as that, though I am not sure if it represents tRU properly. In the on-line Apte's dictionary they spell it as "tRR" What is needed is to put together the syllables "t + RU" where RU is the long vowel.  
  
I do not know whether people have read in this lesson # 68 tRU, as it should be read.  

  
I have no intentions of being an adamant "Sanskritist", Mr. Hadley. That does not befit a student of Sanskrit. Also, as I have always been saying, I do these lessons NOT AT ALL, from the position of a teacher. I am a student myself and am just sharing my learning and my notes **टिप्पणयः \| also. I have received criticisms also. Have I not acknowledged all the criticisms from Dr. Avinash Sathaye ?** If I were to be an adamant person, would I have acknowledged those ?  
  
In my first response to Mr. Dave, I had very much mentioned that I have difficulties. I request, earnestly request Mr. Hadley, that people be sympathetic to the difficulties. Most of the difficulties do not remain difficulties, at all if Sanskrit is written in Devanagari. Difficulties crop up when I have to transliterate from English to Devanagari and vice versa. I do not want to represent words and text in Sanskrit wrongly. That will earn Sanskrit a bad name, will it not, Mr. Hadley ?  
  
The language is rich and glorious by its own merits ! How can that language get a bad name ? Will Sanskrit get a bad name by you or I calling it bad ? Giving a bad name to Sanskrit is like spitting at the sun. Can one spit at the sun ? If I do not understand the glory of the language, the fault is more with me, not with the language. If the language can be best understood by reading it in Devanagari, why should "not being able to read Devanagari" be not recognised as one's own short-coming ? Why should a serious student not make efforts to overcome the short-coming ? Why should one charge one who writes Sanskrit text in Devanagari be branded as a Sanskritist ? Does one brand one writing Greek text in Greek as "Greekist" ?  
  
Is it not good to self-introspect than criticise and call names ? My lessons are for *serious* students, whosoever they are and wherever they are, definitely not just for the Hindi natives. I am myself not a Hindi-speaking person. My mother tongue is Marathi. My lessons are well-received by people of all Indian languages, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, for whom also the Devanagari script is quite an alien script. You should recognise this, if you do not know, that these scripts are far different from Devanagari. They are all written above the line, just as English is also written above the line, whereas Devanagari is written hanging from the reference line. In India itself, people of these languages do have difficulty in reading Devanagari. I do sympathise with them also. But, none of them has ever complained. I appreciate them to be serious students.  
  
For your information please note that anything written in Devanagari does not become only for "Hindi native". If the text is Sanskrit, it remains Sanskrit, not Hindi. If there is any misunderstanding about this, may it be known that Devanagari script is used for at least three Indian languages - Sanskrit, Marathi and Hindi. Gujarati script, also Bangla and Punjabi, appear to be similar, but are distinct variants, in many instances substantial variants. All people even within India, except those having Hindi and Marathi as mother tongues, will have difficulty in reading Sanskrit text written in Devanagari. But they have all accepted and appreciated my lessons with an open mind.  
  
Thanks and regards,

  
सस्नेहम् ,  
अभ्यंकरकुलोत्पन्नः श्रीपादः \|  
"श्रीपतेः पदयुगं स्मरणीयम् ।"  
[http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com](http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com/)  
[http://slezall.blogspot.com](http://slezall.blogspot.com/)  
स्थापित-दूरभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 22 2849 5365](tel:+91%2022%202849%205365)  
चलितभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 98330 72044](tel:+91%2098330%2072044)  
  



