+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2021-02-01, 19:12:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/_BioDkyZ8-g)]]



<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XJiB76eUB6Y&feature=youtu.be>  

Panchajanyam Trust Proudly presents Sri Vedanta Desika's கண்டாவதாரம் \| Ghantavatharam \| घण्टावतार: A Non-Commercial Tamil feature film with English Subtitles for Future Generation & Sanathana Dharma Screenplay & Direction Sri APN Swami YouTube Premiere :26 Jan 2021 6PM IST @APN SWAMI YouTube Channel Sri Vedanta Desika: Swami Vedanta Desikan (1268–1369) was a guru and philosopher who re-established the Vishistadvaita doctrines of Sri Ramanuja and in this process, reinforced Sanatana Dharmam and Vaishnavam. Swami Vedanta Desikan was born in a small village called Thooppul near Kanchipuram,Tamil Nadu in the 13th century. He is considered to be the greatest Acharya after Swami Ramanuja and all through his life, he has brought about many miracles that have impacted people. He focussed on a life that strictly adhered to the Vedic Shastras. Despite many attempts to influence him with wealth, he chose to live a very simple life far away from any material accumulation. He was always ready to help others and this can be seen in the incident where he rushes to a village afflicted by plague and prays to Sri Sudarshana to cure them. Likewise, he was known for his magnanimity in accepting those who hated him, thereby showing us the right path to live. He has written more than 120 works in languages including Tamil, Sanskrit, Prakrit. His erudition was par excellence and was conferred the title "Kavitarthika Simham", which means the Lion Among Poets, by none other than Lord Sri Ranganathar and Goddess Ranganayaki Thayar of Srirangam. He was also adept in many forms of arts and has demonstrated the same throughout his life. That is why he is known as "Sarvatantra Swatantran", the Master of All Arts. Swami Desikan is Ghantavatharam கண்டாவதாரம் / घण्टावतार: Swami Desikan is the avatharam (incarnation) of the Ghanta (sacred bell) of Lord Sri Venkateshwara of Tirumala and hence this movie is called Vedanta Desika's Ghantavatharam. Purpose of this Film: The purpose is to showcase to the future generations, the enormous skills, devotion, simplicity, and perseverance of Swami Desikan. It is hoped that this film will be a big step in creating pride about our Vaishnava Guruparamparai Acharyas, in the minds of our children. The movie is Non-commercial, non-profit intended and is available free of cost to all viewers. Production: Film Ghantavatharam is produced by Panchajanyam Trust. Panchajanyam Trust: Panchajanyam Trust was formed with the aim of spreading the Teachings of Swami Ramanujacharya, in the path laid by Swami Desikan. The trust offers funds for Sampradayic activities including Utsavams, Temple renovation, recognition of Scholars and to nurture young talents. The Sampradayic activities are executed by SARAN sevaks. SARAN “Sampradaya Anushtana Rakshana AbhimaN”, brain child of Sri APN Swami is a satsang of Volunteers who extend their active voluntary service and their valuable time towards practising and preaching of Sanathana Dharma. Director of the Film : Sri APN Swami Vachaspathy Dr. Sri. U. Ve Mukundagiri Vankeepuram Ananntha PadmaNabhachariar, fondly called as Sri APN Swami is a famous Upanyasakar & writer of our ancient Sanathana Dharma. He is also the editor of the 75 year old renowned Sri Nrisimhapriya(Tamil edition) magazine, published by Sri Ahobila Mutt. Sri APN Swami is an immensely talented and multi-faceted person who dons many hats. We often see upanyasakars as those who are proficient in public speaking, but Sri APN Swami is also an excellent writer. He has authored more than 50 books written in multiple languages such as Tamil, English, and Kannada and also has to his credit many historical novels as well. His well-known script in Sanskrit (a three-hour drama) titled Vedanta Desika Vijayam, was staged by him when he was just 25 years old. This sanskrit drama is notable for many aspects of direction and execution, at a time when advanced technology was not advanced. He has learned immensely from his experiences and has now raised the bar and reached a new threshold by directing a full-length feature film - something that you don't expect from either an upanyaskar or a writer! He continuously challenges himself and in the process, enthralls his followers and showcases his knowledge through many platforms. Ghantavatharam is an upshot that portrays the hard work and skills of Sri APN Swami, as it takes much more than mere imagination to create a movie with amateur artists and volunteer actors who are a part of SARAN. Enjoy the Movie and do not forget to share your constructive feedback in the comments section. A Humble Desika Kainkaryam by SARAN Sevaks. -SARAN Sevaks

