+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2021-12-09, 07:20:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/tntlBm5Apro)]]



Went back to the Nyayarakshamani to see the context in which the shloka is mentioned by dIkshitendra.

In the AnandamayAdhikaraNam, the discussion is whether in the context of talking of the Anandamaya Atma, if Brahman is the main teaching or if it is taught as a part of the Anandamaya.

There, it is established that Brahman is the main teaching, and the sentence brahma pucCham pratiShThA does not convey that Brahman is taught as a part of the Anandamaya, for the purpose of upAsana.

  

In the first sUtra आनन्दमयोऽभ्यासात्, the word आनन्दमयः is interpreted by lakshaNA to mean Brahman which is referred to in the sentence, brahma pucCham pratiShThA in the context of Anandamaya Atma.

  

Later, there is another sUtra in the same adhikaraNam, तद्धेतुव्यपदेशात् where the sUtrakAra provided another upapatti, reason, for Brahman to be the main teaching - The teaching इदं सर्वमसृजत यदिदं किंच occuring in the same location, also proves how Brahman is the main teaching because it is taught to be the cause for all this, including the Anandamaya. Because Brahman is taught to be the cause of the Anandamaya (तत्), it is the main teaching here says the sUtra, not as a part of the Anandamaya.

  

Here, an objection is raised. In the first sUtra of the adhikaraNam, the noun आनन्दमयः was interpreted by lakshaNa to mean "Brahman which is referred to in the brahma pucCham pratiShThA sentence occuring in the context of the teaching of Anandamaya Atma".

  

How can the pronoun तत् occuring in तद्धेतुव्यपदेशात्, which refers to the noun आनन्दमयः of the sUtra, refer to the primary meaning of the word as Anandamaya, when the noun was interpreted by lakshaNA to mean Brahman?

  

To which, appayya dIkshitendra uses this shloka to show how even if the pronoun refers to the noun, there is no rule to say that the object denoted by the noun and pronoun have to be the same.

  

Om tat sat.

