+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2020-01-01, 19:18:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/KHh99cp78Po)]]



Works of Mahakavi Nilakanta Dikshitar  
  
1.**Shiva Leelarnavam**Price Rs.300 /- now at Rs.250/- (Lord Shivas Thiruvilayadal at Madurai)  
  
2.**Kalividambanam**Price Rs.45/- (This Kalividambanam is a book dealing with the human nature.)The poet establishes that the human nature is always been the same with his sattire and humour. This book has been even translated to french)  
  
3. Vairaghya Sadakam Price Rs.90/- (The poet should have written this book after he attained more knowledge and learning, experience, etc. and after realisation. The book deals elaborately on Vairaghya's Lakshana its greatness and how to acquire vairaghya)  
  
4.**Sabha Ranjana Sadakam**Price Rs.90/- (It is supposed to be written when he was a Minister in the court of King Thirumalai Nayaka of Madurai. This book deals with Management of a Kingdom. How there will be a progress of the Kingdom and the citizens, how to manage a kingdom. A Royal Court should have Good Ministers to direct the King and Guru to Guide the King, the importance of intellectuals, artisans, poets, musicians etc are very well explained. It has an undercurrent of a high philosophy running underneath)  
  
5.**Ramayana Sara Sangraha Raghuveerastvam**Rs.60/- (There are various Ramayanas besides Valmiki Ramayana. Thulasidoss, Kambar, Ezhuthachan. his book is how the Poet Mahakavi Nilakanta Visualised the whole events of Ramayana.)  
  
*Pushkaramum Palamadaiyum*- Price Rs.150/-  
A book written and published by Sri P G Ganesan (The founder of this Blog)This book deals on:  
  
Maha Pushkaram celebrated every 144 years in Tamiraparani at Palamadai and also a document on Palamadai Village supported by Historical Facts and also karna parampara facts on the village Palamadai. Our Sringeri Jagadguru's guidance in various aspects on Jayanthi of Nilakanta, Pradishta of Kasi Viswanatha and Visalakshi at the Adhistanam of Mahakavi Nilakanta Dikshitha and construction of a temple over the Adhistanam.  
  
Construction of Sankara Mutt at Palamadai.  
  
Articles of Eminent and Personalities about Palamadai and Sankara Mutt. The coming up of a School by the efforts of P S Subbaier, P S Subramania Iyer, Brookbond Sri P S Nilakantan his brother P S Mahadevan, Sri P.A. Chellappa, etc. The important places in Palamadai. Most of the matter will be totally new to several people as this is the first attempt in this direction.  
  
Our Acharya Maha Sanidhanam Sringeri Jagathguru Sri Sri Sri Narasimha Bharathi Swamigal's Tamiraparani Ashtakam, Mangalanayaki Ashtakam, Mangalanayaki Sthotram, Tamil Pann on Mangaleswari samedha Mangalankureshwarar, Chepparai Sri Sivagami Samedha Azhagiya Kuthar, Slokas of Appaiaya Dikshithar, viz., Abeethakujambalsthavam, Durgachandrakala Sthuthi,Marga Bandhu Sthuthi and more importantly excerpts from Mahakavi Nilakanta Dikshithar's famous Nilakanta Vijaya Champu( the Paramasiva taking Kalakoota Visham of Vasuki and became Nilakanta) - Devas and Rishi munees praising the glory of Paramashiva on the immemorable event. Our Acharya's Guidance and his Ashirvadam was very much when the author started to write and publish the book. The author feels every Tirunelveli Citizen and especially all the Palamadai Citizens should have this book to know about the village and pass it on to the next generation. THe proceeds of the book will be totally spent for the welfare measures of Palamadai and the Village Temples.  
  
For purchase of books please contact:  
P G Ganesan  
'Sri Gopala Gruham', Plot No.22, No.2, First Street, A G's Colony, Puzhuthivakkam, Chennai 600091.India  
  
Cell: 9444055318, [9789619437](tel:(978)%20961-9437) email:[appa...@gmail.com]()   

