+++
title = "004 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2018-03-09, 20:12:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/A2lVA7caedo)]]



Dear Mr. Ken P. !

  

One script for 1 billion people is quite appealing. The idea can as well be extended to one script for the whole world, for all the time. Towards that I got following information =>

|      |                 |                          | |:-----|:----------------|:-------------------------| | Rank | Country or area | Population (1 July 2017) | | —    | World           | 7,550,262,101            | | 1    | China           | 1,409,517,397            | | 2    | India           | 1,339,180,127            | | 3    | United States   | 324,459,463              |

64 more rows

  

Actually when one thinks of one script for a vast population or for the entire world, the idea would be to encompass all languages. Since language primarily comprises of sounds or more minutely the syllables, component sounds, the script should be phonetic. Roman script is worst eligibility from the point of script to be phonetic. Diacritic marks would make it closer. But Devanagari has possibly the best eligibility among phonetic scripts. So my question is "Why not promote Devanagari to be the "One script" ?

  

Having said "language primarily comprises of sounds or more minutely the syllables, component sounds", I have developed some thought which I would put forth as वर्णः ध्वन्यंशः / अक्षरं एकवर्णम् वर्णसमुच्चयेन वा /

  

Extending this thought further, possibly theअक्षरम् with समुच्चय ofmaximum number of वर्ण-s is the second letterर्त्स्न्यम्in the word कार्त्स्न्यम्. I can type this very well using Google Input Tool. Actually this Google Input Tool has done a great job facilitating writing in large number of scripts. This is rather converse of the concept of एकलिपिः But it is helpful, because it uses the most commonly available keyboard.

  

In as much as theconcept of एकलिपिः as proposed by श्रीनिवास-चक्रवर्ती-महोदय requires use of diacritic marks, which are not available on commonly available keyboards, that itself becomes a drawback of the proposal.

  

In old times there used to be 256 ASCII characters. That also was, maybe, some attempt atएकलिपिः.

  

In my mind, I am convinced that the script ought to be phonetic. Even if the keyboards have to be redesigned, that should be okay. New keyboard may take time to settle down. Every new idea has to face that.

  

Actually Google also offers some facility of "Input by Mike", converting sounds into characters. I have not tried that. So, I do not know how good that works. If inputs are of sounds, which directly get converted into writing, question of keyboard and its design get bypassed.

  

So the idea ofएकलिपिः gets changed to display of sound-elements i.e. ofवर्ण-s i.e. ध्वन्यंश-s. Those need to be enlisted and symbols to denote these should be standardized. It may become a different script altogether.

  

There the question then would be whether it should be uni-level or multi-level. In a word like कर्तृ the Devanagari script has 3 levels. And if one goes by the grammatical name गमॢँ of धातुः गम् writing of end-vowel ऌँinvolves, not only making it conjoint with the consonantम्but also writing its अनुनासिक-aspect also.

  

I always find it difficult to write the सूत्रम् "ङ्ग्किति च" (पा. 1'1'6). I manage that using ["sandbox" of Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Sandbox&action=edit&oldid=596189391)linked here.

  

एकलिपिः is a good concept. But requires getting into phonetics, phonology and scripting the sound-elementsवर्ण-s / ध्वन्यंश-s.

