+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2020-05-07, 23:30:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/lvWkYjn7xC0)]]



Dear All,  

  

Greetings and Namaste. **Sri Narada Jayanti** falls on **Friday** (**08-May-2020**). As I have already shared the only stotra I have come across on **Sage Narada**(by **Lord Krishna** from **Skanda Purana**) several years ago, I though of sharing a stotra from **Sri Naradiya Puranam**. I am very delighted to share a very unique stotra where **Lord Narayana** stipulates the criteria for recognizing someone as **Bhagavatottama** (supreme follower/devotee of **Bhagavan**) to **Sage Markandeya (taken from Naradiya Purana, Purva Bhaga, Chapter 5).**I thought this might be apt to ponder on the Jayanti of the Supreme Bhagavatottama, Sri Sage Narada.

  

I have also endeavored to give the translation (not exactly in the stanza-by-stanza order) so that it is easier to understand. When we read through the qualifications that **Sri Bhagavan** stipulates for a **Bhagavata**, it will perhaps dawn to our limited faculty that ****just because we think we worship Him, we may not quality as **Bhagavatas** as per His standards of measurement and only a minuscule might.

  

There is also an interesting prescriptive qualification by **Lord Narayana** for **Bhagavatottamas** in this stotra - A **Bhagavottama** should consider both **Hari** and **Shambhu** as the same **Paramatman** and should actually worship **Lord Shiva**, wear **Rudraksha/Tripundra**, delight in uttering/hearing the names of **Lord Hari** and **Lord Shambhu**.

  

**Naradiya purna**, though **Vaishnavite** in color, reiterates the equality of Lord Hari/Shiva, in many places. In the following chapter (Chapter 6), it is mentioned that :  

  

***hari-rUpa-dharaM li\~NgaM li\~Nga-rUpa-dharo-hariH \| IshadapyantaraM nAsti bhedakRRic cAnayoH kudhIH \|\|***

***anAdi-nidhane deve hari-sha\~Nkara saMGYite \| aGYAna-sAgare magnA bhedaM kurvanti pApinaH \|\|***

***...***

***hari-sha\~Nkarayor-madhye brah.hmaNashcApi yo naraH \| bhedaM karoti so.abhyeti narakam bhRRishadAruNam \|\|***

***haraM hariM vidhAtAraM yaH pashyatyeka-rUpiNam \| sa yAti paramAnandaM shAstrANAM eSha nishcayaH \|\|***

*Meaning : Lord Hari bears the form of Linga and Linga bears the form of Lord Hari and there is no difference between the two. Only the dull-witted submerged in the ocean of ignorance imagine difference between them. One who creates difference among the Trinity surely enters hell. Those who see the Trinity as the same get eternal bliss as enunciated by the Shastras*.

  

That we mortals always pay lip service to Lord's design and teachings is hardly news. But what is risible is that we tend to put ourselves in an elite pedestal by virtue of our own self-certification for being a**Bhagavata**.

  

May this stotra impel us to redouble our efforts to become a Bhagavata as He expects.

  

With Best regards & Pranams,  

K. Muralidharan Iyengar (Murali)

  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XBinRZNOl9n8NSPF26tHV-IcWYAW7N6Q/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hVgJrC0Mb7y6dVMGPA5rFkM9G22wjSGD/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Cu86ZItHkLxXF4Oq5XtzAdIjh80oJYde/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1aQHFq8brZklrnDl-843KrTV_hIMxBuvc/view?usp=sharing)  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10CUkju10jOiljfiM53GaVEQU3KIaUb8o/view?usp=sharing)  

[Gujrati](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XYjFsYS1QLTI2OTZpdzZtWEs3aHFhbUdzNGFn/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1N1ttSCJspQvCMV1LhickSor0sXoGLNaM/view?usp=sharing)  

  

  

