+++
title = "006 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2019-04-25, 21:04:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/_-0Tw6UQ3pg)]]



<http://www.ibiblio.org/sripedia/ramanuja/archives/jan04/msg00114.html>as per vaishnava tradition

<https://www.indiadivine.org/content/topic/1392968-four-kinds-of-samanadhikaranyam/>  

(Pranams to all.  



 When two or more words in a sentence, each of which has a different meaning, together denote one and the same object, they are said to be in sAmAnAdhikaraNyam. (in apposition).

Shri Shankara has, in his bhAShya on brahmasUtra 3.3.9, explained that sAmAnAdhikaraNyam is of four kinds.



 These four kinds are explained below.



1\. adhyAse sAmAnAdhikaraNyam- superimposition.

 Here the word ‘adhyAsa’ is not used in the sense of superimposition due to delusion, but in the sense of a deliberate mental act of looking upon one thing as another for the purpose of meditation. The upanishadic statement, “Meditate on name as brahman” is an instance of such a sAmAnAdhikaraNyam. Here the idea of brahman is superimposed on a name, but the idea of name persists and is not negated by the idea of brahman as it happens in the case of a superimposition due to delusion. Another example is meditation on an image as Lord ViShNu, where the idea of ViShNu, is superimposed on the image.



2\. apavAde sAmAnAdhikaraNyam. (This is also known as bAdhAyAm sAmAnAdhikaraNyam)- ablation.

 The example given by Shri Shankara for this is--- the idea that the body-mind complex is the Self, which has been persisting over innumerable births, is discarded on the rise of right knowledge arising from the Upanishadic statement ‘That thou art”. Here what was thought to be the Self is found to be not so. Thus the wrong knowledge is replaced by right knowledge.

Another example is the statement, “The silver is nacre”. Here the meaning is that what appeared to be silver is really only nacre. The statement “sarvam khalu idam brahma (Ch. up, 3.14.1), which means “All this is indeed brahman”, is of this type. It means that all this that appears has no reality and that there is nothing but Brahman.

 In this kind of sAmAnAdhikaraNyam the two which are in apposition are of different levels of reality. Silver is prAtibhAsika, while nacre is vyAvahArika. “All this” is vyAvahArika, while brahman is pAramArthika.

3.ekatve sAmAnAdhikaraNyam- identity.

 An example is “satyam jnanam anantam brahma”. Here each of the three words, satyam, jnanam and anantam has a different meaning, but together they denote brahman. Here satyam, jnanam anantam are identical with brahman.



 Another example is, “The pot-space is the same as the total space”.

Here both are equally real (vyAvahArika sattA) and their identity is declared.

4\. visheShaNa-visheShya-bhAva sAmAnAdhikaraNyam.

Here the relationship between the words is that of substantive and attribute. An example is, “a blue lotus”.

Best wishes,S.N.Sastri)

  

<https://www.swami-krishnananda.org/bs_3/bs_3-3-10.html>as per brahma sutra  



