+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2019-07-07, 23:58:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/C-fanL1_z0s)]]



\|Hari Om\|  
Dr Chandrashekhar (Gaarhapathya Chikitsaalaya) and Shankara Seva Bharathi, Basavanagudi, Bengaluru, welcome one and all for the two days' Sahal program.  
  
Date : Saturday 20th and Sunday, 21st July 2019  
  
Venue: BBUL Jain Vidyalaya, K R Road, Shankarapura  
  
Location: BBUL Jain Vidyalaya  
#84, K.R.Road, Opposite V. V. Puram College, Chikkanna Garden, Shankarapura, Chikkanna Garden, Shankarapura, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560004  
080 2242 2936  
<https://maps.app.goo.gl/DqStYvPB1kZ5FcL27>  
  
Presented by: Dr. Chandrashekhar  
  
Reporting time: 8:45am  
  
Session 1: 9.30 -11:00 am  
Break  
  
Session 2: 11.30 -1:00 pm  
  
Lunch  
  
Session 3: 2.30 -3.30pm  
  
-break -  
  
Session 4: 3.45 -4:45 pm  
(on both the days).  
  
Registration fee: ₹ 600/-  
  
Saturday's topic : Lalitha Sahasranama and Sadhana krama  
- Importance and the puranic context.  
- Potrayal of the 'Bhramhanda'.  
- Reconciliation of the messages of the Vedas and the Sahasranama.  
- Vedantic insights in Sahasranama.  
- Reconciliation of the structure of the body and the Srichakra.  
- Sadhana krama: the effects on materialistic life and 'Moksha'.  
- 'Pooja krama': 'Antaryaga'.  
- Do not's while reciting ('paarayana' of) the Sahasranama.  
- Good health and well-being from reciting the Sahasranama.  
\_  
Sunday's topic : Annapana vidhi\_  
It is well acknowledged that good health and well-being is very essential. But the health itself is a consequence of the food we intake. Hence the consumption of food in accordance with the scriptures is a necessity for a good health. The lectures in this programme will focus on the essential role of scriptures in maintaining good health, and also on the ill-effects of not consuming food in accordance with the scriptures.  
  
Some highlights  
- Impact of the consumption of food in accordance with the scriptures.  
- 'Saptha aahara kalpana': nature of food, 'samskara', procedure to cook, etc.  
- Assimilation of food into the body.  
- 'Bhojana vidhi', 'anupana vidhi' and effects.  
- Effects of 'JeerNahara'.  
- Digestion ('pachana prakriya') according to Ayurveda.  
- The ill-effects of improper intake of food, 'pathya', etc.  
  
Matra ashiteeyam  
- The quantity ('maatra') and the procedure ('krama') of consumption of food, its 'nirukti', characteristic ('lakshaNa'), etc.  
- Ill-effects: 'alasaka', 'visuchaka', 'dandaalasaka', etc.  
- What is indigestion? Its cause, effect and treatment. - Other treatmental procedures and home-made remedies.  
- The effect of 'ahoratris' on body and mind.  
  
All are welcome  
  
Please note  
\* Participants are requested to bring a pen and a notepad for their convenience.  
  
\* Anyone who wish to participate can contact the same number.  

