+++
title = "000 q885"

+++
[[q885	2018-10-03, 19:02:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/gyqOU2xqogY)]]



*Namō vaḥ*,

  

I am interested in the difference between *manuṣya* (मनुष्य) and *mānava* (मानव).

  

I will admit to you what it is for, even though I don't think it speaks well of me.

  

I am interested in rendering my surname in *Saṁskr̥ta*, so that I can use it in correspondence, etc. I suppose it would be more appropriate to receive a name in *Saṁskr̥ta*from a *Guru.*I have not had such an opportunity. Being drawn by intellectual pursuits, I chose this route instead.

  

It is "Sniderman". It derives from the Yiddish "שנייַדערמאַן" (Shnayderman). A phonetic approximation of the English would probably be*Snaiḍarmaṇ*(स्नैडर्मण्), and of the Yiddish would probably be *Śnaiḍērmāṇ*(श्नैडेर्माण्) (or श्नाइडॆर्माण्), but that doesn't look very*Saṁskr̥ta*).

  

To "snide" (English "snithe") is to cut. It is an archaic word in English, but it is still found in German (schneide) and Yiddish.

  

It is a direct cognate to*√chid*. Therefore, "snider" (Old English "snidere", which incidentally implies "woodcutter") is a direct cognate to *chēttr̥*.

  

"Man" (מאַן) has the same meaning as English "man".

  

It literally means "cutter man". In Yiddish it is used for one who cuts cloth.

  

I wanted to keep the root*√man*in there somehowas it is related to the root of "man".  

  

"*Manu*" is closely related to English/Yiddish "man" but it has shades of meaning that I don't think are appropriate for translating "man".

  

So I came to the words *manuṣya* and *mānava*. Both are related to English/Yiddish "man" and both have meanings similar to "man".

  

I am trying to decide between *Chēttr̥manuṣya* (छेत्तृमनुष्य) and *Chēttr̥mānava* (छेत्तृमानव).

  

I don't know whether either one makes sense as a compound. I figured they could be*Karmadhāraya*, asa "cutter who is a man", but my understanding of *samāsa*is limited.

  

I don't expect anyone to take this seriously. But I am interested in knowing of any subtle differences between *manuṣya* and *mānava*.

  

Dhanyavādaḥ,

Mātyuḥ

