+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2018-10-30, 21:00:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/JSNYndBwDrM)]]



  

Courtesy: Sri.Sriram Narainswamy Iyer.

  

Dear Sir/ Madam,

  

We introduce ourselves as one of the pioneer cultural institutions in Mumbai engaged in the promotion of classical art forms since the last six decades. Kalāsadan was established in the year 1954 by late Guru Shri Mani with the objective of preserving and propagating classical art forms of Bharatanatyam & Carnatic music and the classical language of Sanskrit.

  

Our efforts towards carrying forward Guruji's legacy of revival and propagation of Sanskrit through the medium of classical music and dance has culminated in the creation of the Sanskrit ballets such as "Kuchelopākhyānam", "Hari-Pāndavīyam" and "Umā-Parinayam". These works, inspired by the ancient works like 'Gīta Govinda' and 'Krsna-līlātarangini' represent a fine blend of poetic verses and melodious songs in Sanskrit set to classics music conveyed by means of dance.

  

The support and response received by our Umā-Pariṇayaṃ, inspired us to create yet another dance-ballet of the same genre - 'Śaṅkara-digvijaya' celebrating the glorious life of the great phlosopher and seer- Sri Ādi Śaṅkarācarya. With the plot based on the various Sanskrit biographies of the ācārya, the Śaṅkara-digvijaya is comprised of simple Sanskrit verses composed by us interspersed with the original works of Śrī Śaṅkarācārya. The ballet would be an aesthetic portrayal of the major events in the life of the great seer presented through the means of classical dance & music.

  

The "Sri Sankaradigvijayam" is our humble tribute unto the feet of the Jagadguru, whose life still continues to inspire every Indian. The ballet would be performed by our team comprising of 25 dancers and 8 musicians and we seek the presence of a large number of learned artistes, scholars as well as patrons of Sanskrit language, as we would be presenting this cherished production of ours on November 18, 2018 - 10.30 am at Sri Shanmukhananda Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi Auditorium, Mumbai.  

  

  

We expect to make the event a congregation of art-lovers and sanskritists and your presence would be a great source of support and strength to us in this humble effort of ours toarchiac tradition of operatic Sanskrit plays. Kindly make it convenient to attend the same and the the entry for the performance is open to all, also forward to your contacts who would be interested.

  

Yours in the service of Arts,

For Kalasadan.

Sriram Narainswamy Iyer.

(7303288905)

  

