+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2015-06-16, 19:39:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/XdI9raUHVRE)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Sri Kurma Jayanti** falls on **13-June-2015 (Saturday),** I am happy to share a rare **Dashavatara Stuti** by **Sage Gauramukha** taken from **Varaha Puranam/Chapter** **15**. It is mentioned that **Sage Gauramukha** attained emancipation after worshipping **Lord Vishnu** with this hymn.

  

As mentioned before, hymns on **Lord Kurma** are just very few, in spite of being one of the most important incarnations of **Lord Vishnu** - and I had shared them all few years ago. In fact, **Kurma Puranam** contains just one hymn on **Lord Kurma** at the end of the Purana, if my memory serves me right. In fact **Kurma Purana** contains many hymns on **Lord Shiva** and elaborates on the **Paratattva** of **Lord Shiva**, with the constant rider that there is no difference between the two. In fact, **Lord Shiva** mentions that He Himself is **Lord Narayana** in this Purana. Another quote from **Kurma Purana, Chapter 14 Verses 86-90:**

  

**manyante ye jagadyoniM vibhinnaM viShNuM IshvarAt \| mohAd Aveda-niShThadvAt te yAnti narakaM narAH \|\| 87 \|\|**

**vedAnuvarttino rudraM devaM nArAyaNaM tathA \| ekI-bhAvena pashyanti mukti-bhajo bhavanti te \|\| 88 \|\|**

**yo viShNuH sa svayaM rudro yo rudraH sa janArdanaH \| iti matvA yajed devaM sa yAti paramAM gatim \|\| 89 \|\|**

Meaning : ***Onewho sees the difference between Lord Vishnu and Lord Rudra due to ignorance and meditation on non-Vedic texts enters into the hell. Those who follow Vedic Marga see both Lord Narayana and Lord Rudra as one and the same and attain emancipation. He who is Vishnu is Lord Rudra Himself and He who is Lord Rudra Himself is Lord Janardana***.

  

For the three Vishnu Avatars that happen concomitantly viz. **Kurma, Dhanvantari and Mohini** - there are very few hymns on these forms in Purans. Perhaps we might have lost those sections of the Purans which contain them.

  

May we pray to **Lord Kurma** on **Kurma Jayanti** day and seek His blessings.

  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XVEZ3dkJyLXNGOXQ5UVpwY3JLdzRuVjRObEVR/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5Xbkp0ZE9oazdiajhKMl9haXRxdnhZN09vOUhv/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XU19GODZfMHRDN0U2V0RteDFOUHRfWmRzdHg0/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTG04eVVyUlZ3bXVpeS1ManBWSWNNYmNELXhF/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XZFFzYkx2UTB3MFdlYzZlWGd4WG5aNWFlZTgw/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XcTNvMEtQc3R5M29BRmdCRHE3RXFoa3Z5MmI4/view?usp=sharing)  

  
  

  

