+++
title = "021 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2017-08-16, 05:41:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/BbRWlxwudeA)]]



Comes to mind another game !

  

Suppose you have been given all the 3900-odd sootras, but without their serial numbers. You have been trained in interpretation of all those sootras. That is like, you, the batsman, have been trained in tackling 4000 types of bowling patterns of how the ball will come to you. The game then is to arrange the sootras by your own logic. Note, you have not been trained at all about their sequence in aShTaadhyaayee.

  

The question then comes, should not the solution-arrangement be exactly as is in aShTaadhyaayee ?

  

I think, Bhattoji Dikshit played this very game and ended up composing Siddhaanta-koumudee, wherein the sequence is very very different from that inaShTaadhyaayee ! And Varadaraaja continued with the game in the same pattern as of Bhattoji, but just started putting away, eliminating many sootras from each chapter and ended up with Laghu-Siddhaanta-koumudee !

  

Looking at thisLaghu-Siddhaanta-koumudee, in my first glance at it, I ended up being askance of the logic of "jhalaam jash jhashi" being there in "ach-sandhi-prakaraNam" ?!

  

If ach-sandhi is a category of prakriyaa, shall I pick upjhalaam jash jhashi from the random basket of sootras and put it inach-sandhi category (or pack) of prakriyaa ?

  

In another instance, there was the question of deriving the form akurvata starting with the dhaatu DukRu(j)n The closing statement QED could come only after some 16 steps, every step, being application of a sootra, i.e. being application of the 'prakriyaa' implicit in that sootra.

  

The "How to" solution for just one formakurvata fromDukRu(j)n can be obtained only by being well-versed with aShTaadhyaayee itself.  

  

But then have not people been understanding this akurvata in the very first verse of geetaa, without any knowledge of aShTaadhyaayee ?

  

I must rest here, because I think I have inserted many distractions to your basic 'project'-proposal. Sorry for this. But, what I think, is, there should be a clear list of objectives. Right now, at least to me, the proposal needs much better clarity.

