+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2012-04-28, 07:25:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/gF_rHlh8x_A)]]



Forwarded.



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  

----- Forwarded Message -----  
**From:** HARIHARA SUBRAMANIAN \<[hsubram...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
**To:** "[peek...@yahoo.com]()" \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\>; "[aiy...@yahoo.com]()" \<[aiy...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Friday, 27 April 2012 4:16 PM  
**Subject:** A Great Opportunity for Samskruta Seva  

  

Priya Brahmana Bhando,

Kindly go through the following postinmgs relating to a Sanskrit Research Institute which is struggling for survivaldue to lackof monetary support.

If sufficient number of persosn from the Brahmin communitycome forward to become life members, that would be sufficient to keep the Institution going.

Therefore`` kindlycontribute what even you can from your side for the maintenance of the Institute.

Also kindly disseminate this information to your friends and contacts and try to get as many of them become members of this institute.

Dhanyavad

HS



Forwarded: Message from Samskruta Bharati Chennai

Hari OM!



sarvebhyo namskaraH !



The forwarded message makes a sad reading - piercing the heart of every samskrita lover and abhimaanee.



What a sad state of affairs reflecting the pathetic metamorphosis caused by neglect and indifference of the powers that be- to Kuppuswamy Sastri Research Institute, Sanskrit College, Mylapore, Chennai, reportedly in dolldrums due to financial constraints! ``



A jolt to honest aspirations of every samskrita lover in the nook and corner of this small world, thereported ordealof thisinstitution of international repute and standing is bound totest the nerves of everySamskrita Abhimaanee. An honestintrospection from every individul who is proud of our language and culture will certainly open the gatesof moral and financial support that the great institution needs at this juncture.



kindly go through the message anddoextend your support and cooperation to help this great institution!

  
DhanyavadaH  

Samskruta Bharathi -Chennai



# 

# **<http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2012-04-03/chennai/31280618_1_rashtriya-sanskrit-sansthan-renowned-sanskrit-scholar-ancient-language>** 

# Sanskrit centre struggles to stay alive

B Sivakumar, TNN Apr 3, 2012, 06.57AM IST

  
  
CHENNAI: The Kuppuswami Sastri Research Institute attached to the Sanskrit College in Mylapore is in doldrums because of lack of government patronage.  
  
  
The institute, one of the three involved in Sanskrit research in the country , has been surviving on private donations . With not enough resources , the management is unable to pay the faculty the benefits of the sixth pay commission.  
  

Institute director V Kameswari said the Union government stopped its financial support in 1995, after which it has been solely dependent on donations . "The institute has a trove of rare palm leaf manuscripts and books not just about Sanskrit literature but also on architecture , fine arts , geography, history and astronomy in Sanskrit ," says Kameswari.  
  
  
The two other such institutes are R G Bandarkar Sanskrit Institute in Pune and Ganganath Jha Sanskrit Institute in Allahabad . "We have requested a onetime grant from the Union planning commission and also annual assistance from the Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, but are yet to get any support ," says K S Balasubramanian, deputy director of the institute . The plan panel had given grants to the Mumbai Asiatic Society and Kolkata based Asiatic Society .  
  
The institute was getting about 10 lakh till 1995 but due to a misunderstanding between the government-appointed members of the governing committee and the management , the aid was stopped .Today, there are 24 scholars at the institute , most of them women doing their PhDs. "Scholars from across the country and world visit the institute . We send out publications to many foreign universities and they in turn send their publications which are preserved here ," says Kameswari .  
  
The institute was started as a private non-profit organisation in 1944in memory of Kuppuswami Sastri , a renowned Sanskrit scholar . It has a library with books on astronomy, architecture , fine arts , mathematics , Vedas , Puranas , Upanishads and various branches of science.



"A private entrepreneur made a donation with which we have air conditioned the library. The palm-leaf manuscripts in the library are 600 to1,000 years old. Many of them are in Grantha script . We also have books on Jainism that speak about solving mathematical equations and explain geographical concepts ," says Kameswari , who is worried about keeping the ancient language alive.  
  

HSMani

  
  

