+++
title = "002 Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare"

+++
[[Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare	2012-05-30, 16:26:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/jgp1wA7ccto)]]



Dear sanskRuta Group Friends,  
 Especially those like Shri.Abhyankarajee who are having sanskRuta Lessons URLs and are in USA or visit US Periodically,  
namaskaara.  
  
 This request from Madam Chitrajee urfa Shreevidyaajee has revitalised my long desire to know whether any Indian Groups or Individuals are Holding 10 Days (Two weeks of 5 days per week : 2 Hours per day) "sanskRuta sambhAShaNa shibiram" in USA cities.  
 This activity was started by Shri.Prof.Shastryjee and Dr.Nagarajajee in Bangalore around 1970 and IISc Bangalore was one of the earliest Venues.  
 As per my knowledge and belief, In Indira Gandhi days, in early 1970's, a "sanskRuta sambhAShaNa shibiram" was even Conducted by Prof.Shastryjee in Parlaiment House Premises, New Delhi, for the benefit of then MPs of all Parties.  
 Last year or so their Organisation (axaram ? ) had conducted 1000 such shibira's in Bangalore city alone and this mega activity culminated with an International Conference (or similar activity in Bangalore).  
 I am sure many such experimental Shibirs can be Conducted at several US cities where a large enough number of Indians and there children can take advantage and get acquinted with Talking in sanskRuta (routine matters ). This whole "Syllabus" was modelled on Learn French (or German) in 15 Days Crash Programs conducted for Persons having to visit the respective countries for some official - business Activities.  
  
 I wish such "sanskRuta sambhAShaNa shibiram" may be planned and Conducted in USA cities during this year's 2012_Summer\_(School)\_Holiday Season.  
 With regards and Best Wishes,  
 Dr.Ghare, Wednesday, 30th May 2012, Seattle USA.  
  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Sat, 26 May 2012 13:02:34 +0530  
Subject: \[Samskrita\] My doubt  
From: [chitra....@gmail.com]()  
To: [sams...@googlegroups.com]()



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "samskrita" group.  
To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita?hl=en>.  

