+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2019-11-06, 17:48:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/T2FtoN1NYRs)]]



To All Namaskar!

  

In response to requests from many for a Spoken Sanskrit Class that really starts from the beginning, here it is:

  

New Spoken Sanskrit Class -- "Starting from the Beginning"

  

For all those around the world who would love to learn to speak Sanskrit, this is your opportunity! We are starting a new session which is truly starting at the beginning. It will run via [freeconferencecall.com](http://freeconferencecall.com), and will be our first class to use all the facilities this medium offers including live video, and screensharing for slide presentations.

  

Wherever you may live in the world -- whether it be India, Europe, USA or elsewhere -- this is your opportunity to learn Sanskrit. All you need is a mobile phone or computer to connect to class.

  

Do send this announcement to all your friends, and we encourage you to post it on WhatsApp groups, Googlegroups, Facebook, Twitter, as well as your other favorite social media.

  

In order to accommodate people in diverse locations, we shall hold two sessions per week each designed to cover the same material. People will be welcome to attend one or the other, or both if they are able to and would like extra practice.

  

To register, contact: Swarup \<[dinb...@sprynet.com]()\>

Classes are free.

  

Class Timings:

  

Saturdays 10:30 AM EST (USA) / 3:30 PM (UK) / 4:30 PM (Continental Europe) / 8:00 PM India

Sundays 10:30 AM EST (USA) / 3:30 PM (UK) / 4:30 PM (Continental Europe) / 8:00 PM India

  

Class length: 90 minutes

  

Start Date: To begin in the next 1-2 weeks. Date will be announced to all registrants.

  

Connect Information:

  

1\. Dial in via phone:

USA Dial-in number: [(605) 313-6342](tel:(605)%20313-6342)

India Dial-in number: 0172 510 0948

Germany: 0221 98203418

UK: 0330 088 1937

Australia: (03) 9028 0272

Other countries: See attached PDF. (For each country, second number listed is the in-country number)

  

After dialing in, use access code for all countries: 586437

  

2\. Internet: click on link: [join.freeconferencecall.com/2019-sanskrit](http://join.freeconferencecall.com/2019-sanskrit)

  

3\. Install freeconferencecall app in your phone from the play store. Then use online meeting id: 2019-sanskrit

  

Study materials:

The class will utilize our Samskrita Bharati's famous text: "Abhyasa Pustakam". The book is available for purchase here (USA), and here (India). It is also available for download as a pdf here.

  

This will be supplemented with slides presentations via FCC screen sharing, as well as live video demonstrations via FCC live video stream into your phone/computer during class.

  

We will include lessons in the Devanagari alphabet as well if needed depending on the needs of those who register. So you will get everything you need from day one!

  

Hari Om,

Swarup

