+++
title = "002 S K"

+++
[[S K	2017-12-06, 08:08:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/zkW0iKGrGR4)]]



Its not my claim. It is claimed in  
  
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vishnu_sahasranama#Quotes_about_Vishnu_Sahasranama>  
  
Within [Vaisnavism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaisnavism "Vaisnavism") some groups, such as [Sri sampradaya](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sri_sampradaya "Sri sampradaya"), adhere to and follow the [Rig Veda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rig_Veda "Rig Veda"): V.I.15b.3, which states "O ye who wish to gain realization of the supreme truth, utter the name of [Vishnu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vishnu "Vishnu") at least once in the steadfast faith that it will lead you to such realization." ^([\[14\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vishnu_sahasranama#cite_note-15))  
  
"15b" above should be "16".

  
  
On Tuesday, December 5, 2017 at 8:04:34 PM UTC-5, hn bhat wrote:

>   
> Why do you think Rgvedic Sukta should/could be translated as you like? >
> 
> >   
> > 

> 
> >   
> On Tuesday, December 5, 2017, S K \<skpf...@gmail.com\> wrote:  
> > 

> 
> > > 
> > > >   
> > Rig Veda Book 1 Hymn 156  
> >   
> > तमु सतोतारः पूर्व्यं यथा विद रतस्य गर्भं जनुषापिपर्तन \|  
> > आस्य जानन्तो नाम चिद विवक्तन महस्ते विष्णो सुमतिं भजामहे \|\|  
> >   
> > > > griffith gives: > > > >   
> > > > \[01-156\] HYMN CLVI. Visnu > > > > 1. FAR-SHINING, widely famed, going thy wonted way, fed with the > > oil, be helpful. Mitra-like, to us. > > > > So, Visnu, e'en the wise must swell thy song of praise, and he who > > hath oblations pay thee solemn > > > > rites. > > > > 2 He who brings gifts to him the Ancient and the Last, to Visnu who > > ordains, together with his > > > > Spouse, > > > > Who tells the lofty birth of him the Lofty One, shall verily surpass > > in glory e'en his peer. > > > > 3 Him have ye satisfied, singers, as well as ye know, primeval germ > > of Order even from his birth. > > > > Ye, knowing e'en his name, have told it forth: may we, Visnu, enjoy > > the grace of thee the Mighty One. > > > > 4 The Sovran Varuna and both the Asvins wait on this the will of him > > who guides the Marut host. > > > > Visnu hath power supreme and might iliat finds the day, and with his > > Friend unbars the stable of the > > > > kine. > > > > 5 Even he the Heavenly One who came for fellowship, Visnu to Indra, > > godly to the godlier, > > > > Who Maker, throned in three worlds, helps the Aryan man, and gives > > the worshipper his share of > > > > Holy Law. > > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> > 

> 
> > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to samskrita+...@googlegroups.com. >
> 



