+++
title = "000 sri venkat"

+++
[[sri venkat	2013-04-18, 06:41:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/W9eeZDBIznY)]]



A bit of a let down by the subject headline.. not as much info as I expected.  
  
What is not mentioned is that even in South East Asia Hindu empires,  
Sanskrit is used  
  
Sanskrit, once a lingua franca of kings  
By Express News Service - CHENNAI 23rd March 2013  
  
<http://newindianexpress.com/cities/chennai/article1512930.ece>  
  
Dr Chitra Madhavan \| EPS  
  
The language Sanskrit was once used as a lingua franca all over the  
nation during the ancient and medieval era. Most of the inscriptions  
of those days were in Sanskrit and those inscriptions were found in  
large numbers in Tamil Nadu, said Dr Chitra Madhavan, a noted  
historian, here on Thursday.  
  
Delivering the lecture on ‘Sanskrit inscriptions in Tamil Nadu’ at the  
monthly lecture organised by Tamil Valarchi Kazhagam, she said, “From  
the Pallava dynasty to the Maratha dynasty, which ruled Tamil Nadu —  
Sanskrit inscriptions were used, since it was widely followed and the  
mother tongue of each dynasty was different from others.”  
  
“Through the inscriptions, one can know about the political geography,  
culture, administration, economy, etc., of these periods,” she said.  
  
She added that most of the inscriptions were found in temples, which  
indicated that the donations were made by the kings. One can find  
inscriptions that are centuries old at Thiruparuthikundram near  
Kanchipuram.”  
  
“Interestingly some of the inscriptions found in Gangai Konda  
Cholapuram tell us that kings from the Northern parts of India also  
made their contributions through these donations,” she added.  
  
She said, “Most of the temples in Tamil Nadu do not have the names of  
the kings. But one of the temples in Thiruvottiyur, which is in the  
shape of a gajapirushtam, has an inscription naming the builder of the  
temple as Veera Chola Ravi.”  
  
Another interesting point she noted was that the Vijayanagara Dynasty  
kings did not sign in their own names on the inscriptions. Whenever  
they signed on the metal inscriptions, they used the name of Sri  
Virupaksha, since the latter was the traditional deity of those  
kings.”  
  
“One can get a lot of information from these inscriptions. But people  
do not have a conscious sense of history and damage such inscriptions  
by abandoning them or pasting posters on them. This must be  
prevented,” she concluded.  
  
  
Comments(6)  
  
It was not only the language of the kings but of all educated people,  
just as English is the link language today. Shankara from Kerala,  
moved round the whole country, having discussions with contemporary  
scholars. Scholars from south went to Varanasi and such places and  
those from north came to Kanchi etc.  
  
Posted by aravinda rao  
  
  
Glad to read this essay. Happy to note that the ancient Sanskrit  
traditions in Tamil Nadu is expressed in a public domain. Kudos to  
Dr.Chitra Madhavan  
  
Posted by Vishvaksenah at 03/24/2013  
  
  
Dr Chitra Madhavan you are doing a great work for the sake of Sanskrit  
and Tamil heritage & culture. Keep it up.  
  
Posted by Rajaraman  
  
  
Language and Lipi both are different. People normally confuse between  
the two. Prehistoric days Sanskrit was written in poorva brahmi, later  
in Brahmi Lipi in south India in Grantha lipi later in North India  
Devanagari lipi. Temple inscriptions in south in both old Tamil and  
Sanskrit were in Grantha lipi. Till 1930s Grantha lipi was widely used  
for writing Tamil. Just like Chinese lost touch with old script and  
moved to phutongua due to Govt. Intervention to increase literacy!? We  
also lost touch with our old script  
  
Posted by krishnamurthi at 03/27/2013  

