+++
title = "000 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2010-12-17, 22:13:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/oB6GQjCM_cE)]]



Dear Group,

Ever since I acquired some knowledge of the Russian language several  
years ago I have been struck with the remarkable similarities that I  
noticed between it and Sanskrit. I know that this is not a new  
discovery. Similarities between Sanskrit and ancient Persian on the  
one hand and European and Slavic languages in the other have been  
noted and studied for the last two hundred years by old scholars like  
Bopp till the present day. Beyond this basic fact I do not know much  
about this subject. Also, I have no acquaintance with the disciplines  
of Linguistics or Philology beyond the level of normal general  
knowledge. I hope that someone with expertise in these disciplines  
will clarify the issue.

I give below several examples of such similarities between Sanskrit  
and modern Russian. I have no knowledge of the older Russian  
language. To my layman’s mind these similarities appear to go deeper  
that those observed vis-à-vis other European languages. I have to ask  
knowledgeable persons in this Group to judge whether my impression is  
right or wrong. If it is worthy of further consideration, I have some  
more questions to ask, which possibly may have already been noticed  
and answered.

Before saying more let me give a list of similarities that I have  
spotted. The list has the original Russian words in the Cyrillic  
script, their pronunciation rendered into Devnagari by me as I hear  
those words and lastly, in round brackets, their Sanskrit  
equivalents. (The sign ‘ь’ is the soft sign in Cyrillic, indicating  
that the consonant preceding it is to be pronounced in a ‘soft’  
manner. It has no equivalent in the Roman or Devnagari scripts and I  
have left it as it is in the Devnagari too.)

когда कग्दा (कदा), тогда तग्दा (तदा), куда कुदा (कुत्र), туда तुदा  
(तत्र), всегда व्सिग्दा (सर्वदा).

пить पीतь (पा-पिबति), плавать प्लावातь (प्लु-प्लावते), видеть बीद्येतь  
(विद्-वेत्ति), давать दावातь (दा्-ददाति,) падать पादातь (पत्-पतति),  
жить ज्झीतь (जीव्-जीवति), умирать उमिरातь (मृ-म्रियते), слушать  
स्लूषातь (श्रु-शृणोति), нести न्येस्ती (नी्-नयति).  
день द्येनь (दिन), ночь नोचь (नक्त), небо न्येबऽ (नभस्), свет स्व्येत  
(श्वेत), огочь अगोनь (अग्नि), дым दिम (धूम), вода वदा (उदक ), мёдь  
म्योदь (मधु), мясо म्यासऽ (मांस), мать मातь (मातृ), брать ब्रातь  
(भ्रातृ), сестра सिस्त्रा (स्वसृ), око अको (अक्षि), горло गोर्लऽ (गल),  
волк वोल्क (वृक). (The Russian word for ‘bear’ is медведь मिदव्येदь ,  
‘one who knows the honey’.)

один अदिन (एक), два द्वा (द्वि), три त्रि (त्रि), четыре चितीर्य  
(चतुर्), пять प्यातь (पञ्च), шесть श्येस्तь (षट्), десят द्येस्यातь  
(दश), сто स्तो (शत).

етот एतोत् (एतत्), тот तोत् (तत्), оба ओबा (उभ).

Prefixes пра при пере प्रा प्रि प्येऱ्ये (प्र परि) Prefix с स् (स in  
the sense of ‘with’).

There are two other interesting things that I may mention here. The  
suffix тво त्व is employed to convert a noun or an adjective into its  
corresponding abstract noun, exactly as in Sanskrit. Thus муж मूझ्ह  
is ‘man’ or ‘husband’, мужество मूझ्हेस्त्व is ‘manliness’ or  
‘courage’, государ गसुदार is ‘master’ or ‘ruler’, государство  
गसुदार्स्त्व is ‘government’, человек चिलोव्येक is ‘human being’,  
челобечество चिलोव्येचेस्त्व is ‘mankind’. (The well-known word  
‘Muzhik’ ‘Russian peasant’ derives from муж मूझ्ह.)

The Russian use of numerals is in its own category. Counting 2, 3 or  
4 of anything is associated with the singular number of the genitive  
case but from and beyond 5 of anything is associated with the plural  
number of the genitive case. Thus один рубль अदिन रूब्ल् one ruble,  
два рубля द्वा रुब्ल्या two of ruble, три рубля त्रि रुब्ल्या three  
of ruble, цетыре рубля चितीर्य रुब्ल्या four of ruble but пять  
рублей प्यातь रुब्ल्येइ five of rubles and so on. Thus, when the  
Russian language (rather, its predecessor language whatever it was)  
was being formed, numerals up to four were on the side of ‘a few’,  
indicated by the singular genitive case and five and beyond were  
‘many’. This may perhaps be a fossil of the stage when the primitive  
man could separately comprehend the first four numbers but anything  
more than 4 was incomprehensible and therefore treated as ‘many’. In  
Sanskrit too we have the singular, the dual and the plural numbers.  
This could perhaps be the fossil of the stage when the primitive man  
could separately comprehend 1 and 2 but anything beyond was ‘many.  
This mimics the Russian.

If you have persevered into reading this thus far, I now pose the  
questions that I have. These are:

1\) Is the similarity between these two languages of the same type as  
with other languages like Latin and Greek or is it closer and  
deeper?  
2) If the similarity is closer and deeper, does it indicate that the  
groups of primitive people who formed the predecessor languages were  
living in closer proximity and/or for a longer period than others  
groups that broke away?  
3) Almost all words cited above are of such a type that they would be  
among the early ones to be conceived in the creation of a language.  
Would this factor have any bearing upon the supposed proximity of  
those primitive groups?  
4) It is quite like that some scholar has noticed these questions and  
given answers to them. St. Petersburg in Tsarist Russia was an  
important center of Sanskrit scholarship and a Russian Indologist or  
linguist might already have studied it. If so, I would like a  
direction towards that work.

Thank you for your indulgence in reading this rigmarole.

Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, December 17, 2010.  
[arvindkolhatkar.blogspot.com](http://arvindkolhatkar.blogspot.com)

  

