+++
title = "007 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2010-12-19, 03:53:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/oB6GQjCM_cE)]]



Yuri,  
  
Long back I had attempted to read Tilak's 'Arctic Home in the Vedas'  
as also his other related book 'Orion'. Both went over my head as  
they require a good knowledge of Astronomy, both current and old  
Hindu, also called 'JyotiHshaastra'. Tilak and Max Mullar were in  
correspondence.  
  
I may perhaps mention that prior to Gandhi's emergence as the leader  
of India, Tilak was the most eminent Indian political leader. Among  
the several things done by him was the founding of the newspaper  
'Kesari' in Poona (Pune), starting, to give the masses a sense of  
unity, the annual public festival of Ganeshotsav - which unfortunately  
appears to have got out of hand and taken proportions Tilak would  
never have imagined or approved -, commemorating the 17th century hero  
Shivaji, with the same purpose in mind, and writing scholarly books  
like The Arctic Home, Orion and (in Marathi) Geetaarahasya, a  
commentary on Geeta. The last one was written by him while he was  
undergoing imprisonment of 6 years for sedition at Mandalay in Burma.  
  
He was also one of the founders in 1885 of the Deccan Education  
Society and the famous Fergusson College of Poona (of which I am a  
proud alumnus). Both institutions are still flourishing.  
  
The masses respected him so much that he was given the honorific title  
'Lokmaanya',by the masses by which he is now more commonly known, like  
Mahatma Gandhi being called by Indians as Mahatmaji. He died on  
August 01, 1920 and was cremated by special permission at the  
Chowpatty Beach in Bombay. His statue erected on that spot is one of  
the landmarks of today's Bombay.  

î—“

