+++
title = "000 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-02-11, 23:32:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/vYu70K_sRQc)]]



Dear Group,  
  
The postings about UddaNDa PaNDita and the tradition of Revathi  
Pattathanam under the Zamorins of Kozhikode reminded me of a similar  
tradition of the annual Ramana (रमणा) initially started on a small  
scale by Sambhaji, the son of Shivaji and the second Chhatrapti, later  
continued by the Sardar Dabhade family of Talegaon and eventually  
taken over by the Peshwas. It was an annual gathering in Poona of  
Brahmins in the month of Shravana in which the host distributed  
दक्षिणा amounts to learned Brahmins in recognition of and commensurate  
with their depth of learning. I believe the readers will find the  
following information about the Ramana and the annual दक्षिणा  
interesting.  
  
From the initial few thousands of rupees annually distributed, the  
Ramana came into its own under the third Peshwa Balaji Bajirao  
(Nanasaheb) who distributed a reported Rs 18 lakhs in 1740 as  
दक्षिणा. The fame of the Ramana soon reached into all corners of  
India and it became the practice of Brahmins from all over India to  
come to Poona in Shravana to get a share of the दक्षिणा.  
  
The annual gathering initially used to be held in a garden near  
Shaniwarwada, the residence of the Peshwas. The memory of it still  
survives. The well-known school that has occupied this place for the  
last several decades is still called 'New English School, Ramanbag'.  
The location of the annual Ramana later shifted to a special enclosure  
built for this purpose at the foot of the Parvati Hill on the  
outskirts of Poona. Any Brahmin desirous of दक्षिणा had to go into  
this enclosure. It had four gates and four learned Brahmins (like  
Ramshastri PrabhuNe, the famous Nyaayaadhiisha of the Peshwas who  
pronounced the देहान्त प्रायश्चित्त upon Raghunathrao, uncle of  
Narayanrao Peshwa, for his complicity in the assassination of the  
latter) appointed by the Peshwa sat at these gates and assessed the  
दक्षिणा payable to Brahmins as they passed out through the gates.  
दक्षिणा was paid to each passing Brahmin at the hands of a member of  
the Peshwa family. Remains of this Ramana enclosure at the foot of  
Parvati were extant till a few decades ago and old residents of Poona  
remember them.  
  
This annual tradition survived almost till the end of Peshwa rule in  
1818. It is now mainly remembered for the 'Ghashiram Kotwal' episode  
under Narayanrao, the fifth Peshwa. Ghashiram, a Kanouji Brahmin,  
came to Poona and rose to prominence under Nana Fadnavis, the  
celebrated and competent 'Karbhari' of the Peshwa. Nana appointed  
Ghashiram as the 'Kotwal' or Chief of Constabulary of Poona.  
Ghashiram, because of his harsh rule, soon had plenty of enemies in  
Poona. A party of Telanga Brahmins had come to Poona for the Ramana.  
Ghashiram caught them while they were allegedly eating mangoes stolen  
from a garden. Pending further enquiry, Ghashiram ordered them  
confined to a small room and went away. In the night, a few of them  
died of suffocation and thirst. When this news spread, a large angry  
mob of irate Brahmins marched to Shaniwarwada and demanded condign  
punishment to Ghashiram. Apparently, Nana too wanted Ghasiram out of  
the way, because, as the rumor goes, he had slept with Ghashiram's  
young daughter, and had secretly had her killed when she was found to  
be pregnant with his child. Ghashiram was then handed over to the mob  
for punishment as they saw fit. The mob took Ghashiram to the  
outskirts of Poona and stoned him to death. (The late Vijay Tendulkar  
wrote a play on this episode in the 1960's and it raised the hackles  
of the traditional Brahmins of Poona!)  
  
The Ramana stopped with the end of the Peshwa rule. When the British  
rulers adopted the policy of preferring western-oriented education for  
the Indians over the traditional learning, following the famous  
'minute' of Thomas Babington Macaulay in 1834, and the Bombay  
University was founded, a scholarship called the Dakshina Fellowship  
was instituted for proficiency in Sanskrit. This Fellowship is still  
awarded annually and, like the celebrated Jagannath Sankarsett Prize  
for Sanskrit, enjoyed considerable prestige at one time. It is named  
after the traditional दक्षिणा that the Peshwas distributed each year.  
  
Peshwas themselves were Brahmins and under them Poona became the  
bastion of Brahmin supremacy in Maharashtra, a fact that created  
discontent and jealousy among other classes of the society. The  
discontent and jealousy sometimes takes destructive forms, a  
manifestation of which was the attack on the Bhandarkar Oriental  
Research Institute a couple of years ago and the very recent moves of  
the 'Sambhaji Brigade' to disown any role of Samartha Ramdas and  
Dadoji Konddev in the shaping of Shivaji's life.  
  
Some information about the Ramana may be seen at  
<http://www.parvatidarshan.in/html/ramana_temple.html>  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, February 11, 2011.  

