+++
title = "002 Taff Rivers"

+++
[[Taff Rivers	2017-10-17, 22:37:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/ncUhkPJbWx8)]]



Anand,  
  
Does your understanding come from Purushottama XV, perhaps.  
  
In the world of the sixth sense within, that of the *manas*, images generated by the mind are superimposed upon those brought in from the outside by the lower five senses.  
Thus, in *this* inner world, the mental faculties or *the roots*, branch outwards, or downwards. The branches below.*  
  
*Companion wisdom (Yoga sūtra) has it that stopping those monkeys of the inner world from chattering, then of that which sees, in its own form, stands.  
That which sees, being the "I" , not the 'eye'. See, having exactly the same meanings in English as in Sanskrit.  
  
The "I" or the self, the self itself, equates to the power in those batteries in those mobile 'phones of ours.  
However, unlike lithium stuff, brain stuff, with a little help from heart and lung, is self charging - for a time.  
  
Some word verse things, are meant to be taken both ways, as metaphors and literally.  
When it comes to certain verse things, men are cast into four demographic categories for marketing purposes, by those who write such verses.  
  
There are those that chose take such categories literally.  
  
Today, many more such categories of the educational kind, are recognised, viz. Blooms taxonomy etc.  
  
Again, from the Christians' Lord's Prayer, we have *Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.  
  
*As to the location of those two places? As ever, that depends on ones demographic category.  
  
Regards,  
  
Taff Rivers,



