+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2016-03-07, 20:32:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/UuQQF62dwwU)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar

  

Dear All.

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Mahashivaratri** falls on Monday (7th March, 2016), I am happy to share a very rare hymn on **Lord Shiva** by **Lord Brahma** and the entire **Deva ganas** to request a commander for their army at the behest of **Lord Brihaspati**. This is taken from **Chapter 25** of **Sri Varaha Puranam** tited **Origin of Skanda** (readers might recall the hymn on Lord Skanda taken from this chapter and shared a couple of years ago).

  

\[*Btw - I wanted to share one of the rare Sahasranamas on Lord Shiva, but time has been a constraint. I have not been able to respond to many of the email queries which I received in the last few months. My sincere apologies*.\]

  

We all know that Varaha Purana is classified as a **Vaishnavite Manual of Worship** by H.H. Wilson in his introduction. We very often hear from different quarters that purans are divisive in nature by virtue of its color (Brahmite/Vaishnavite/Shaivite) and breed fissiparous tendencies within various groups of Sanatana Dharma. **This is absolute rubbish, pernicious and nothing could be far from truth**.

  

In the past, I had shared how Varaha Purana, though a Vaishnavite purana, reiterates the equality of trinity innumerable times. Even if we take this chapter25 alone (including this hymn attached), the message comes several times. For example:

  

**puruSho viShNur ityuktaH shivo vA nAmataH smRRitaH \| avyaktantu umA devI shrIr vA padmanibhexaNA \|\| 4 \|\|**

***(Meaning :** Purusha is called Vishnu and is also known by the name Shiva. Avyakta is Uma or Shri (Lakshmi))*

  

Shloka 3 in the prayer(and Shloka 19 in the Chapter) confirms the same message:

**tvaM AdidevaH puruShottamo harir bhavo maheshas tripurAntako vibhuH \|\| 19 \|\|**

(Meaning : *You are the first of gods, best of men, Hari, Bhava, Mahesha, destroyer of Tripura and all pervading*)

  

In Shloka 10/11 of the prayer (and Shloka 26/27 in the chapter) :

**sharIrajaM GYAnamidantvavasthitandadeva pashyanti kudRRiShTayo janAH \|\| 26 \|\|**

**nArAyaNas tvaM jagatAM samudbhavas tathA bhavAn eva caturmukho Mahan \|**

**sattvAgni-bhedena tathA .agni-bhedena yugAdi-bhedena ca saMsthitas tridhA \|\| 27 \|\|**

(Meaning: *The whole universe is your body though men without proper inner vision see only the physical aspect. **You are Narayana**, the source of the universe. Similarly, you are the great Brahma. By the difference in the Gunas, fires and yugas you remain three-fold*.). ***Compare this with the Gadadhara Stotram on Lord Vishnu I shared last year - the message is exactly the same***.

  

In chapter 73, Shloka 40, Lord Vishnu tells Lord Rudra as below:

**na bhedAshca Avayor deva ekAvAvAmubhAvapi \|\| 73-40 \|\|**

(Meaning: *O husband of Uma, There is no difference between us. We are one and the same*)

  

To cap it all, Chapter 58 (**Saubhagya Vrata**) corroborates this point unequivocally - we have seen this already.

**yA shrIH sA girijA proktA yo hariH sa trilocanaH \|\| 3 \|\|**

**evaM sarveShu shAstreShu purANeShu ca gadyate \|**

**etasmAd anyathA yastu brute shAstraM pRRithak tayA \|\| 4 \|\|**

**rudro janAnAM martyAnAM kAvyaM shAstraM na tad bhavet \|**

**viShNuM rudra kRRitaM brUyAc ChrIr gaurIti nigadyate \|\| 5 \|\|**

**etayor antaraM brUyAt so .adhametyucyate janaiH \|**

**taM nAstikaM vijAnIyAt sarva-dharma bahiShkRRitam \|\| 6 \|\|**

(Meaning: *Lakshmi is identical with Girija and Hari is identical with three-eyed Rudra. It is so declared in all Shastras and Puranas. Any Shastra or Kavya which states otherwise is not worthy of its name. Vishnu should be considered as Rudra and Lakshmi as Gauri. He who speaks of difference between them is lowly (Adhama) among people and should be considered an atheist outside the field of Dharma*.)

  

Can there anything more emphatic as the above from a Purana considered Vaishnavite in nature? So, all talk of difference among the Trinity is just plain bunkum, ignorance and ineptitude. What can we expect from the blind leading the blind?

  

May We Pray To Lord Shiva, who is also Lord Narayana and Lord Brahma on the Shivaratri day!

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTGtaVjlBT09ZUGtjdFozNTJuVGk5WW5SU1ZZ/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XU09WNG9aM19MS0RYS0k1d3NzWGdVUVBrZ0g0/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XUVYzS3BneUx1dkxiSnJWNDF2WlZkT3RsZ1Ew/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTkJzRG9ZMXY5WDhoUndYa0ZaeHBFU2dCWndz/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XUnlTUFRra0p5Q3l0V1lnMHNvbVdyR0JwbzJR/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XMUlOVTdBUkIxNlpsT29IRGtxejZha1VTRkpN/view?usp=sharing)  

  

