+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-03-09, 12:37:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/wz9GC9asN6Y)]]



I am giving below how the poetry here is imagined.

When the sun sets and darkness slowly descends, the lotus flowers close. At that time the bee which

sits on the flower and enjoys the honey gets trapped. When the sun arises the next day the lotus opens

again. Then only the bee can get away from that flower. The poet describes the thought of such a bee.

The bee thinks that at the end of the night the sun will rise, the lotus will open and it would fly away to

freedom. But alas when it was thinking thus an elephant come to the lotus pond and plucks the lotus

and swallows it along with the bee. That is the destiny of the bee.

  

Now the verbatim meaning -

  

ratrirgamishyati - the night will go.

  

bhavishyati suprabhatam - the day will dawn.

  

bhasvanudeshyati - the sun will rise.

  

hasisytai pankajasrih - the lotus will smile (i.e. will open)

  

itham vichintayati - while thinking thus

  

koshagate dwirephe - by the bee inside the lotus

  

haa hantha hantha -  alas alas alas

  

naliniim - the lotus

  

gaja -  an elephant

  

ujjahaara - plucked.

  

  



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** K.N.RAMESH \<[knra...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [peek...@yahoo.com]()  
**Sent:** Wed, 9 March, 2011 10:06:02 AM  
**Subject:** Re:Destiny  
  

Sir

Meaningof this sloka on destiny pl

thx

knr

>  style="PADDING-BOTTOM:2px;BACKGROUND-COLOR:#e8eef7;PADDING-LEFT:2px;PADDING-RIGHT:2px;FONT-FAMILY:helvetica;FONT-SIZE:140%;BORDER-TOP:#7799dd 1px solid;PADDING-TOP:2px"> >
> Topic: > [destiny](http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita/t/787100af8f1dbb7a) >
> 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to > [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit this group at > <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita?hl=en>.  

  
  
  
--  
If God brings you to it, He will bring you through it.  
Happy moments, praise God.  
Difficult moments, seek God.  
Quiet moments, worship God.  
Painful moments, trust God.  
  
 Every moment, thank God  

  

