+++
title = "006 Hnbhat B.R."

+++
[[Hnbhat B.R.	2012-08-19, 22:12:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/drfnT2W20Tw)]]



In Microsoft Word document, there is indexing tool, which can be used to index in English alphabetical order and also probably in with Sanskrit Alphabets also, if font is selected Devanagari, font.

  

Only some editing may be needed, after inserting the index. Also there is contents table also possible, if marked in the text, in the same way, indexing words or beginning of the verses.

Field codes: Index field

{ INDEX \[Switches \] }

  

Builds and inserts an index. The INDEX field collects index entries specified by XE (Index Entry) fields. The INDEX field is inserted by the Index and Tables command on the Reference submenu (Insert menu).

  

Switches

  

\\b Bookmark

Builds an index for the portion of the document marked by the specified bookmark. The field { INDEX \\b Select } builds an index for the portion of the document marked by the bookmark "Select."

  

\\c Columns

Creates an index with more than one column on a page. The field { index \\c 2 } creates a two-column index. You can specify up to four columns.

  

\\d "Separators"

Used with the \\s switch, specifies the characters (up to five) that separate sequence numbers and page numbers. The field { INDEX \\s chapter \\d " : " } displays page numbers in the format "2:14." A hyphen (-) is used if you omit the \\d switch. Enclose the characters in quotation marks.

  

\\e "Separators"

Specifies the characters (up to five) that separate an index entry and its page number. The { INDEX \\e "; " } field displays a result such as "Inserting text; 3" in the index. A comma and space (, ) are used if you omit the \\e switch. Enclose the characters in quotation marks.

  

\\f "Identifier"

Creates an index using only the specified entry type. The index generated by { INDEX \\f "a" } includes only entries marked with XE fields such as { XE "Selecting Text" \\f "a" }. The default entry type is "I".

  

\\g "Separators"

Specifies the characters (up to five) that separate a range of pages. Enclose the characters in quotation marks. The default is an en dash (–). The field { INDEX \\g " to " } displays page ranges as "Finding text, 3 to 4".

  

\\h "Heading"

Inserts text formatted with the Index Heading style between alphabetic groups in the index. Enclose the text in quotation marks. The field { INDEX \\h "—A—" } displays the appropriate letter before each alphabetic group in the index. To insert a blank line between groups, use empty quotation marks: \\h "".

  

\\k

Defines the separators between cross references and other entries.

\\l "Separators"

Specifies the characters that separate multiple-page references. The default characters are a comma and a space (, ). You can use up to five characters, which must be enclosed in quotation marks. The field { INDEX \\l " or " } displays entries such as "Inserting text, 23 or 45 or 66" in the index.

  

\\p "Range"

Compiles an index for the specified letters. The field { INDEX \\p a-m } generates an index for only the letters A through M. To include entries that begin with characters other than letters, use an exclamation point (!). The index generated by { INDEX \\p !--t } includes any special characters, as well as the letters A through T.

  

\\r

Runs subentries into the same line as the main entry. Colons (:) separate main entries from subentries; semicolons (;) separate subentries. The field { INDEX \\r } displays entries such as "Text: inserting 5, 9; selecting 2; deleting 15".

  

\\s

When followed by a sequence name, includes the sequence number with the page number. Use the \\d switch to specify a separator character other than the default, which is a hyphen (-).

  

\\y

Enables the use of yomi text for index entries. 

\\z

Defines the language ID that Microsoft Word uses to generate the index.

Examples

  

The field { INDEX \\s chapter \\d "." } builds an index for a master document. Each subdocument is a chapter; the chapter titles include a SEQ field that numbers the chapters. The \\d switch separates the chapter number and page number with a period (.). An index generated from this field looks similar to the following:

  

Aristotle, 1.2

Atmosphere

  Earth, 2.6

  Jupiter, 2.7

  Mars, 2.6

  

the template can be customized. The above is the template of word index. The same may be used for Indexing Sanskrit fonts, beginning of the words. This is the template of Office XP word document. The same is there in Contents table, which should be marked as heading, sub heading etc. customized to accommodate the Sanskrit fonts (Unicode will be better).

  

Just see the help in word document for the templates of both Contents Table and Indexing.

  

  

  

  

  
  





> 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to > [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit this group at > <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita?hl=en>.  
> > 
> > 

  
  

  

--  
*Dr. Hari Narayana Bhat B.R. M.A., Ph.D.,  
***Research Scholar,  
**

Ecole française d'Extrême-OrientCentre de Pondichéry

16 & 19, Rue Dumas

Pondichéry - 605 001

  

  

