+++
title = "008 श्रीमल्ललितालालितः"

+++
[[श्रीमल्ललितालालितः	2012-08-20, 00:42:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/drfnT2W20Tw)]]



**[श्रीमल्ललितालालितः](http://www.lalitaalaalitah.com)  
[lalitAlAlitaH](http://dooid.com/lalitaalaalitah)**

  
  
  

On Sun, Aug 19, 2012 at 10:12 PM, Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> In Microsoft Word document, there is indexing tool, which can be used > to index in English alphabetical order and also probably in with > Sanskrit Alphabets also, if font is selected Devanagari, font. >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Only some editing may be needed, after inserting the index. >
> 

  
Thanks, bhat Ji. I saw this option, but haven't used it ever. I'll have to read help pages for it.  
  

> 
> > Also there is contents table also possible, if marked in the text, in > the same way, indexing words or beginning of the verses. >
> 

  
I've made TOC by marking H1, H2, etc.  
  



  
This almost went above my head. Is this the coding MS Word uses ?  
  

> Just see the help in word document for the templates of both Contents > Table and Indexing.

  
Sure. Thanks for pointing in right direction.  

  

  



  
Although I know a little about HTML and CSS, I've no knowledge of PHP.  
So, I will have to exert me to learn this.  
Anyway, this page does separate the words on a web-page. Let us suppose that I copy-paste the typed document and get list of words. Even then there is no way to create link between the list and the original document. I mean to say that there will be no way to automatically add page number and line number of occurrence of words in to the list of words generated by explode.  

