+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2015-03-05, 01:33:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/mU7NbvAPNiI)]]



courtesy:Sri.Sundararajan

  

SlOkam from aruNaachala maahaatmyam, Skanda Puranam.  

  

दर्शनादभ्रसादसि जननात्कमलालये ॥

काश्यन्तु मरणान्मु्क्तिः स्मरणादरुणाचले ॥

  

"Abarasadasi"  

\]

abara = rain-clouds (as opposed to megha = clouds without water)

sadas = a place where water is kept (for example, tank, lake etc)

abhra-sadas = a place where water/rain-clouds stay = sky =

aakaasha-tattva=Chidambaram

  

ஆரூரில் பிறக்க முக்தி,  
தில்லையைப் பார்க்க முக்தி,  
அருணையை நினைக்க முக்தி,  
காசியில் இறக்க முக்தி  

  

Once a devotee asked Bhagavan Ramana quoting a sloka: It is said that being born in Tiruvarur, seeing Chidambaram, dying in Kasi, and remembering Arunachala-- one of all these alone will confer Liberation, Mukti. How is it? How a mere birth or seeing,

or dying or remembering a place alone will confer Mukti?"

  

The sloka reads like this:

  

Jananat Kamalalaye, Kasyantu maranam, mukti,

Darsnanat Abhrasadasi, smaranad Arunachale.....

  

Bhagavan Ramana replied:

  

Yes. What is Jnananat Kamalalaye?\* Being born in the Heart!

  

(\*Kamalalayam means Tiruvarur and also the Heart) 

  

What is Darsanad Abhrasadasi?\* Seeing the Seat of Consciousness! 

  

(\* Abhrasadasi means seeing Seat of Nataraja in Chidamabram and also seeing the Seat.)

  

Kasyantu Maranam. What is it? Kasi is the Light of Realiztion.

Dying in the light of realization is dying in Kasi!

  

Smaranad Arunachale. Remembering Arunachala, the Effulgence,

is to be assured of Liberation!

  

(Source: Talks, Munagala Venkatramaiah, Talk No. 473.

Sri Ramanasramam.)

  

amana: (quotes a Sanskrit verse) Darsanad Abhrasadasi jananat Kamalalaye, Kasyantu maranam muktih smaranad Arunachale.

  

(and then gives the meaning of the Sanskrit verse) “To see Chidambaram, to be born in Tiruvarur, to die in Benares, or merely to think of Arunachala, is to be assured of Liberation.” Jananat Kamalalaye means “by being born in Kamalalaya”. What is it? It is the Heart. Similarly, Abhrasadasi – Seat of Consciousness. Again, Kasi is the Light of Realisation. Remembering Arunachala completes the verse. It must also be understood in the same sense.

  

Devotee: So bhakti(devotion) is necessary.

  

Ramana: Everything depends on the outlook. One sees that all born in Tiruvarur, or visiting Chidambaram, or dying in Banares, or contemplating Arunachala, are muktas.

  

Devotee: I think of Arunachala, but still I am not a mukta.

  

Ramana: Change of outlook is all that is necessary. See what such a change did for Arjuna. He had the vision of the Cosmic Self. Sri Krishna says: “Gods and saints are eager to see my Cosmic Form. I have not fulfilled their desire. Yet I endow divine sight by which you can see that Form.” Well, having said so, does He show what He is? No. He asks Arjuna to see in Him all that he desires to see. If that were His real form it must be changeless and known for what it is worth. Instead, Arjuna is commanded to see whatever he desires. So where is the Cosmic Form? It must be in Arjuna.

