+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2014-01-01, 18:23:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/uo1Fb2NA2ec)]]



In Ujjayini there was a princess who was very learned. When she wanted to marry she put a condition that the future husband should match her in knowledge and learning. Many suiters

tried their luck. When someone went to the palace he was asked to present himself in a hall. On

one side of the hall the princess would sit. The suiter would be seated opposite to her. There

would be a large curtain separating the two. On the side of the suiter there would be a large number of pandits to watch the discussin.

  

Many pandits tried their luck but all of them got defeated. They thought of a plan to make an

idiot defeat her. When they were in search of such a person they saw a shepherd cutting the

branch of a tree positioning himself on the wrong side. If the brach is cut the branch will come

down along with the cutter. They approched him who was asked to follow the pandits. They gave him a bath and was dressed appropriately to meet the princess.

  

When he reached the palace he saw the big curtain separating the hall and the princess. On this

there was as a painting of Ravana.On seeing this the shepherd shouted "abbabbata raabhanaa".

  

Hearing this the princess pointed out the wrong pronounciation.

  

But the assembled panditis sided with the shepherd and said.

  

भकार: कुम्भकर्णेस्ति

भकारोस्ति विभीषणे /

तस्मात् राक्षसराजोयम्

राभणो न तु रावण: //

  

They also proclaimed the princess defeated. She had to marry the shepherd.

  

The same night when the princess found that she was trapped she got a plan. She asked her

husband to go to the kali temple nearby at midnight and shut himself in.
This was the kali goes

out on her errands and retrun after some time. She asked her husband not to open the door for

Kali to get inside and ask for the boon of knowledge.

  

This was done. Kali came and asked the person to open the door. He asked the Goddess. Who

are you? She replied. I am Kali. Then Kali asked him. Who are you? I am Dasan. Open the door,

Kali said. Shepherd said No. Kali: What do you want. Shepherd: I want kowledge. Kali: Then

show your tounge through the hole. He did so. Then Kali wrote something on his tongue by the

tip of her sword. The shepherd instantly became a poet. Immediately he became Kalidasa. His

first composition is Shyamala Dandakam in praise of Shyamala or Kali.

  

The he returned to the palace and met his wife. She asked him - asti kaschit vaagarthah?

In reply to this Kalidasa composed three kavyas -

  

astiyuttrasyaam disi devataamaa himaalayo naama nagaadhiraajah: (Kumarasambhavam)



kaschit kaantha virahaguruna swadhiarat pramattah (meghasandesm)

  

vaagarthaaviva sampruktau vagartha pratipattaye (raghuvamsam)

  

(as heard from my father)

  



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

