+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2015-09-09, 13:55:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/qdGMitCCGQ0)]]



According to our tradtion Srirama's incarnationtook placemuch before Srikrishna's incarnation. Valmiki, the authour of Valmiki Ramayana is said to be a contempory of Srirama. He is said to have tought Srirama's twin sons Lava and Kusa to sing Valmiki Ramayana.  
  
Vyasa the composer of Mahabharatha was a contemporary of the Pandavas and Kauravas.  
  
Now I learn from Mahamahopadhyaya P.V.Kane the following -  
  
One remarkable feature in the Mahabharathapassagesis that while they putforwarddozen of times the position of the sun, the moon andthe planetswith reference to the nakshatras, not a single passage gives the position of planets in relation to the signs of the zodiac (viz. the rasis) or theweekdayssuch as Tuesday, Sunday, etc  
(The History of Hindu Dharmasastra Vol V Part I page 532)  
  
  
On the other hand Valmikiramayana Balakanda Sarga 18 mentions the names of the following signs while describing the birth of Rama and others.  
  
Karkata (cancer), Meena (pisces).  
  
The names of weedays are not mentioned in Vakmiki Ramayana.  
  
The rasi names are but the Sanskrit equivalents of Greek names of the 12 signs.  
  
The Greek names are -  
  
kriya, tavuru, jituma, kulira, leya, parthona, juka, korpiakhyah /  
thoukshika, akokero, hridrogasch - ehtsischandthya // (Varahamihira)  
  
The Sanskrit equivalents are - mesha, vrishbha, mithuna, karkata, simha,  
kanya, tula, vrischika, dhanu, makara, kumbha and meena.  
  
This shows that Valmiki Ramayana has been composed much later than Mahabharata.  
  
The type of Sanskrit used in Valmiki Ramayana is more advanced that the one used in Mahabharatha, though the story of Mahabharatha is later than the stroy of Ramayana.  
  

  

