+++
title = "001 S.Ramachandran"

+++
[[S.Ramachandran	2012-09-07, 18:12:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/uQNxJJtCXrs)]]



Dear Sri.Ganapathy Subramaniam,

  Thanks for the posting. I read the ebook posted by you, where

You have properly &accurately blended the events in the life of

great Swamiji with the great Epic. Simply great. Very many thanks for introducing

a GreatSaint ,who lived to the ideals quoted and practiced by Lord Rama,himself .

I honestly feel guilty for not having even a single opportunity to meet this

Great Saint during His life time.

Currently I am in Geneva now and on return to India, I want to visit the Adhishtanam, in Paloor

at the earliest.Can you please inform me the details and the

Modes to reach there and the facilities to stay there. It is enough,evenif the facilities

arevery simple.

I honestly believe that it is Lord Rama's Grace that I came to know about this Mahan.

That too after my continuous parayanam for the last 5 years,after my retirement.

One may wonder to know that I had clear instructions in my early morning dream,

when two Vaishanava Pandits appeared with Srimad Valmiki Ramyayanam in their

hands and instructing me to recite Srimad Valmiki Ramayanam .Few days later

there appeared an unknown Sri Vaishanava in real life before me

and simply informed me that it was the very old Srimad Ramayanam book,used by his

father and now he had no knowledge of Samskrutam and out some inner instruction he

wanted to hand it over to me. His name is Sri. Partasarathy Iyengar,aged about75.

I remained wonder struck. Story doesn't end there. Some time later a great exponent

In Srimad Ramayanam and one who is practicing the ideals of Sri.Ramar, even at this young age and who has been serving, the Religion and Spiritualism in a great way,whom, I met incidentallyasked me whether he could arrange for Ramayana classes in my residence. Unhesitatingly,I said"YES". IT IS Great Dr. Rangangi swamy S/o.Great Krishna PremiSwamigal.

I revived my little knowledge in Samskrutam after 50 years and of course I started doing parayanam,supported by regular classes arranged by my spiritual Guru. It is really Lord Rama's

Anugraham for very very ordinary and a good for nothing fellow to get into this kind of

Satsangh.

May I kindly request you to post any MP3 recordings of this Great Swamiji's upanyasam

In Srimad Ramayanam and Srimad Baghavatham. Or the details of their availability may

be posted.

Thanks &Regards,

Sethu.R

  
Sent from my iPad

  
On Sep 1, 2012, at 2:53 PM, Ganapathy \<[ganapa...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
  

> 
> > Dear Sri.Raghuveer >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks for your kind words. It is all blessings of my Guru Sri.Govinda > Damodara Swamigal. I have expressed my devotion for him in this small > booklet. It is again abridged version of Ramayana only. (in tamil)
> > 
> > 
> > <http://valmikiramayanam.in/wordpress/svkr.pdf>
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks again for your encouragement >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Pranams >
> 
> > 
> > Ganapathy  
>   
> On Thursday, August 30, 2012 9:46:48 PM UTC+5:30, thiruthiru wrote: >
> > Actually we are blessed. > > > > 
> > > > Your kainkaryam is a great one. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > It will help every body to learn Valmiki in a very easy way. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > To add small audio clips is a wonderful creative idea. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > This will be much helpful to attract the youngsters also. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > When adiyen shared with some Yahoo Srivaishnava froups like andavan, > > oppiliappan etc there is an immediate very good response. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks once again. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > adiyen commented in Tamil this morning which was rejected by the > > group admin.  
> >   
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > On Tuesday, August 28, 2012 2:28:25 PM UTC+5:30, Ganapathy wrote: > > > > > I was blessed to study Valmiki Ramayana at the feet of a Sadguru. > > > He He dedicated his whole life for studyingValmiki Ramayana and > > > Srimad Bhagavatham. > > > > > > 
> > > > > >   
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > I have attempted to share the story as I heard from him in this > > > site in the form of short voice > > > clippings.<http://valmikiramayanam.in/> The lectures are in > > > tamil, my mother tongue.Some of you may like it. Work still in > > > progress. > > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > >   
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > Ganapathy Subramanian > > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> To view this discussion on the web visit > <https://groups.google.com/d/msg/samskrita/-/yWOG7IqgMtIJ>.  
> To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to > [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit this group at > <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita?hl=en>.  
> > 

