+++
title = "012 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2010-12-16, 23:37:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/7OjVqOo74Uk)]]



Dear Group,  
  
The book referred to by Hans Nilsson is available online at  
[books.google.com](http://books.google.com), albeit in the preview mode, i.e., only a portion of  
the book is available. Please visit  
<http://books.google.com/books?id=0UCh7r2TjQIC&printsec=frontcover&dq=The+Language+of+the+Gods+in+the+World+of+Men:+Sanskrit,+Culture,+and+Power+in+Premodern+India&hl=en&ei=DkAKTfKCMYrYngeWjfT7Dg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCMQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q&f=false>  
  
or <http://tinyurl.com/2e2t4og>  
  
I believe that the learned author draws the conclusion (please see p.  
14 of the Introduction) that after Sanskrit emerged from its  
sacerdotal function, it spread within three centuries from  
Purushapura, Gandhara in the West (Pakistan of today) to Panduranga in  
Champa in the East (Central Vietnam of today) as the vehicle of  
expression of power by the elites. Yet, it did not function as an  
everyday medium of communication anywhere within this vast stretch,  
unlike Greek, Latin, Arabic and Chinese in their own times and spheres  
of influence.  
  
The political and literary higher circles were a closed, inward-  
looking field and it was run by the powerful for the powerful. That  
is why they wrote in Sanskrit rather than their spoken mother  
languages. Doing it in any other way would make the writer invisible  
to his peer audience. They shared the common axiom that anyone  
outside their class, women and lower castes included, were incapable  
of understanding and speaking Sanskrit. That is why Shakuntala, the  
daughter of a learned teacher, is made to speak in Prakrit. Nearer  
home, the British rulers in the high noon of the British Empire were  
contemptuous of 'natives' professing to speak in English. The rulers  
even had a special term for them. They were called WOGS, Westernized  
Oriental Gentlemen. The purpose behind this small digression is to  
illustrate how language is used by the ruling classes to display and  
exercise their power.  
  
Upendra Watwe observes that he has been told that Sanskrit is the  
mother of all modern Indian languages, north of Maharashtra. I would  
take this delightful and oft-quoted saying a little further. The real  
mothers of the modern India languages are the various Prakrit  
languages, evolved from the common speeches of the vast  
underprivileged underclasses. The mothers had no political power and  
did not boast of high culture. Further, they were acutely aware of  
this shortcoming of theirs. They, therefore, sent their daughters to  
be instructed by a learned headmistress called Sanskrit. The  
headmistress equipped her wards with attributes that their mothers  
were incapable of bestowing upon the daughters. That is why all these  
languages and also South Indian languages contain a plethora of words  
that are identical with their Sanskrit originals. That creates the  
belief that Sanskrit is the mother of Indian veraculars  

î—“

