+++
title = "004 धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>"

+++
[[धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>	2011-08-23, 22:24:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/G30FZvrq2b4)]]



The first known record of this word is in a ऋक् :  
सक्तुमिव तितउना पुनन्तः...ऋग्वेद १०:७१:२

I agree - it is unusual to see two vowels right next to each other,  
not combined sandhi.

I remember reading many years ago, that this is because there in no  
phonological संहिता between the two vowels (i.e., there is not an  
extreme closeness between the vowels). That would mean there is a half-  
mAtrA gap between the two vowels. This slight gap is strange within a  
single "word". But so it is.

This is an explanation of the प्रयोगशरणा वैयाकरणा: variety. If a  
particular language-expression exists in the speech of the elite, the  
grammarian had better accept that as valid.

{Now, even in sandhi, it is possible to have two vowels very close to  
one another that do not assimilate, but remain separate. Where there  
is not-even-optional assimilation of the two vowels, पाणिनि merely  
lists the situation as "प्रकृत्या" or "प्रगृह्य". But where regional  
varieties either allowed or disallowed assimilation, this became  
complicated. Some grammarians used other subterfuges to regularize  
such pronunciations. शाकटायन (as reported by पाणिनि) claims that in a  
particular case a slightly articulation liquid consonant is heard  
between the two vowels.}

My own opinion regarding तितउ is that it is a prAkRtism. Strings of  
vowels without intervening consonants are fairly common in many  
prAkRta languages. There is internal and external evidence that  
prAkRtas were widely spoken at the time of पाणिनि, and presumably at  
the time of the composition of the most recent verses of the ऋग्वेद .  
There are other examples of prAkRta words being re-adopted into elite  
saMskRta.

\- - -  
What exactly is the question regarding कात्य 's commentary/etymology/  
definition? It seems pretty straightforward.  
तन् + डउ -> (सन्वद् प्रथमस्येकाचस्य द्वे) त-तन् (ड्)अउ -> ति + तन्  
(ड्)अउ ->  
-> ति + तन् (ड्)अउ -> (डित्त्वेन टिलोपः) ति त् अउ -> तितउ  
- - -  
पतञ्जलि suggests an additional possibility that the etymological root  
is from तुद्, better explaining the holes in the sieve. The उणादिसूत्र  
etymology from the verb root तन् only suggests the spreading action  
performed by the sieve, rather than the passing through small  
holes.However पतञ्जलि gives no rule or sUtra to support his additional  
etymology. पतञ्जलि , of course, was an observer and practitioner of  
the speech patterns of the elite, and does not need sUtras - he can  
add to lists of exceptions from actual language use.

धनंजय

On Aug 22, 5:55pm, Arvind_Kolhatkar \<[kolhatkar2...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



