+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2018-01-02, 10:41:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/7zL7C7LnaP8)]]



APPEAL

Dear citizens, patrons of Sanskrit and lovers of the great river Tamraparni.

The Samskrta Academy, Madras has been doing yeoman service to the cause of promotion and propagation of Sanskrit, the immortal language of India. It has published many books on Ramayana, Mahabharata, Arts, Philosophy, Religion and so on in Sanskrit, English and Tamil.

Few years ago, the Academy undertook the great task of bringing out an authentic edition of Tāmraparṇī Māhātmya with Tamil translation. We are familiar   with such books extolling the glory of holy rivers like Ganga and Kaveri. Tamraparni, the pride of Tamil Nadu, and the source of life to Tirunelveli residents occupies an important place among perennial rivers of South India.

Tāmraparṇī Māhātmya describes the important pilgrim centres on the banks of the river. The magnitude of this text can be gauged from the fact that it contains more than 6200 verses divided into 64 chapters running into 1700 pages. It has been envisaged to publish this grand text in two volumes of 32 chapters each.

We are happy to inform you that this project has been successfully completed and it will be given to the Press for printing. It is befitting that it will be released during the Inaugural ceremony of the 90th Anniversary of the Samskrta Academy on 21 January 2018 at the Madras Sanskrit College premises.

The cost of publication of this great text is approximately Rs. 15 lakhs. We humbly request your good self to contribute liberally to bring out this book. Donation to the Samskrta Academy is eligible for I.T. exemption under section 80 G.

You can send your cheque, D.D. in the name of " The Samskrta Academy".

For online payment :

Bank : State Bank of India, Luz Church Road

S.B. Account No. 10476546907

IFSC CODE: SBIN0000965 MICR NO. 600002031

We shall be happy to send the set of two volumes of " Tāmraparṇī Māhātmya " to the donors who contribute above Rs.2000.

For any other queries, please feel free to contact us.

Thanking you,

   

      Dr. Sita Sundar Ram

     Secretary

