+++
title = "004 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-10-31, 19:24:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/9yGsspd7uTE)]]



My two-paise worth contribution to this discussion.  

  
\<so one needs to know grammar to read a dictionary and needs a  
dictionary to understand grammar. how does one go about in these  
situations \>  
  

This apparent dilemma is created if one tries to use the dictionary to  
understand grammar. The dictionary does not explain grammar, it  
presumes that you already know some rudiments of grammar. How does  
one acquire these? I still believe that the method followed in Indian  
schools is the best. It involves some learning by rote but doing that  
and seeing it applied in simple sentences soon familiarizes the  
student with the rote, which then ceases to appear daunting. Several  
textbooks are available to help one through this stage. The best-  
known among them, Ramkrishna Gopal Bhandarkar's First and Second Books  
of Sanskrit, digitally available in [archives.org](http://archives.org), can be used by the  
new learner. These books contain basic lists of words used and  
explained in them, so one does not need MW at this stage.  
  
Once the basic structure of grammar is learnt and a few hundred words  
of vocabulary is mastered, one can turn to simple but real texts like  
the Panchatantra. At this stage one can turn to any good dictionary,  
such as MW, and expand one's horizon in terms of vocabulary. Equipped  
with basic grammar, the dictionary will make more sense now. From  
here, it is for the learner to decide when he should try reading more  
complex but popular texts like NItishataka by Bhartrihari or plays  
like Kalidasa's Shaakuntalam.  
  
Philosophical texts and works like the Upanishads will come into the  
picture after this.  
  
When I was a student, at the high school stage we were taught the  
basic grammar and simple verses and texts. Classical literature was  
approached in colleges. The six systems of philosophy, Panini, the  
Vedas and similar tough topics were left for the stage of the Master's  
degree, only for those who wished to specialize in Sanskrit. All  
classical literature is within grasp for anyone who has diligently  
studied Sanskrit till the level of the Bachelor's degree.  
  
The process described above stretches over 6 to 7 years because  
Sanskrit is but one of the subjects that the learner has to learn.  
For another person, who studies only Sanskrit, this process can be  
managed with two years.  
  
I realize that the process looks easy for a student in India who is  
familiar with hundreds of Sanskrit words through their use in the  
student's mother tongue. It will be more difficult for another  
student who does not have this initial advantage but it is still  
doable! So best of luck....  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, October 31, 2011.  

î—“

