+++
title = "011 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2019-03-08, 08:16:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/wC_cuUQApVU)]]



  

भट-महोदय !

I am offended by your comment \<I cannot agree with the remark of Abhyankar who gives every word all the meanings of a word without considering the context!>

Where do you find that I have given all meanings of the words, appearing in this सुभाषितम् ?  

Cordially, S. L. Abhyankar  

  

  

  

On Fri, 8 Mar 2019 at 05:32, Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> The translation by Ken gives the purport of the verse and by that of > literal translation of Abhyankar it gives word by word meaning. But I > cannot agree with the remark of Abhyankar who gives every word all the > meanings of a word without considering the context!  
>   
> On Friday, March 8, 2019, Arvind_Kolhatkar \<[kolhat...@gmail.com]()\> > wrote:  

> > 
> > > > The verse under discussion is a well-known one. It appears at No > > 1015 inभाग ३, सामान्यनीति of सुभाषितरत्नभाण्डागार. It is, in > > fact, attributable toभर्तृहरि, in whoseनीतिशतक, it appears at No > > 42 in Kosambi's edition of theशतकत्रय. > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Arvind Kolhatkar. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "samskrita" group.  

> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().

> >   
> > To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > Visit this group at <https://groups.google.com/group/samskrita>.  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

> --  

> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  

> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().



