+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2015-08-08, 18:53:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/PQMsir4f0_M)]]



  

There is no mention of weekday both in Ramayana and Mahabhratha.

  

Week days have come from the Greek.

  

Aryabahata -

  

bhaanaam-adhas-sanaischara

guru-bhauma-arka-sukra-budha-chandraah /

pratyekam horeshaah

bhavanti suuryodayaat dinapaah //

  

teshaamadhascha bhumih

medhiibhuutaa khamadhyastha //

  

Under the stars there are the following planets - saturn, jupiter, mars, sun,

venus, mercury and the moon. They go round the earth.

  

These seven planets become the lords of the hours The day takes the name of the planet

at sunrise. So we get Saturn, Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, and Venus. Christians

named Sunday as the first day of the week, becuse Jesus came back to life on Sunday.

  

> मेढीभूत mēḍhībhūta**मेढीभूत***a.*Being the central point round which > everything turns; मेढीभूतः स्वयं राजन् निग्रहे प्रग्रहे भवान् > Mb.3.1.16;14.1.16. >
> 
> > 

Aryabhata thought that the earth is the centre of the universe.

  

hora is a Greek word.

hora in Greek becomes hour in English.

Even Varahamihira was confused about this word.

He says - horetyahoratravikalpameke vaanchanti purvaapara varnalopaat.

He wanted that hora should become a Sanskrit word by saying - ahoratra - less

a and tra.

Hindus divide the day and night into 60 naadikas and not 24 hours.

No week day mentioned in Ramayana.

  

  

  



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

