+++
title = "019 Shambhu"

+++
[[Shambhu	2011-05-23, 09:01:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/RRnL4ROHx1Y)]]



What do ‘ethics for its own sake’ as a Western concept and then  
looking for it in the Vedas mean (Vimala ji’s comment)? How is it  
connected to Shankara mahOdaya's question, unless the allegation is  
from the perspective of Christian ethics? If so, the allegation is  
valid. But, as Bhat ji seems to suggest, the Vedas have a very  
different frame of ethics.  
  
Western ethics (i.e., Christian ethics) stems from the notion of  
inherent sinfulness of human life, and one has to atone through love,  
grace, and mercy. This is really good if one’s life is really sinful.  
But is life sinful? Is creation sinful? This is not at all true for  
the Vedic Rishis. Therefore such an ethics is not in the Vedas  
(“shruNvanthu vishvE amr\`tasya putrAH”). Even to the newborn the  
father whispers (during jAtakarma), “You are Brahman.” Nor there is  
evil in the creation unless we mean it to be the mAyA of the advaita.  
Whatever is there simply exists - neither good, nor evil, all  
impermanent yet (in) the One permanent, as only the mAyA and (in) the  
Brahman.  
  
Sin and evil are not in the Buddhist thoughts either where ethics may  
be understood in terms of the pancha shIlA and the eightfold path  
towards nirvana. Engaging in dAnam is advised because doing so causes  
a great joy (same as being God), dAnam paramam vadanti, i.e., it is a  
way to mOksha. So is Dharma, tapas, satyam, damaH, shamaH, prajananam,  
agnihOtram, yajnam, or mAnasam (this narration is in the  
mahAnArAyaNOpanishad). We do experience this joy of the paratatvam  
firsthand when we engage in any of these acts without seeking anything  
in return. Veda’s charity or dAnam is not driven by the Western notion  
of ethics (to redeem sin) at all because there is no sin in the  
creation.  
  
On May 22, 9:45pm, "hnbhat B.R." \<[hnbha...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



