+++
title = "025 Shambhu"

+++
[[Shambhu	2011-05-23, 02:28:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/RRnL4ROHx1Y)]]



Shankara mahOdaya’s original issue was charity in the Hindu scriptures  
but the thread is wandering off to social issues. My few cents on  
both:  
  
Precise citations are too many. Some areas to look:  
  
Charity to fellow humans: two of the five daily yajnas prescribed to  
every dwija householder.  
  
Many ritual vidhis (in the samskaaras, etc.) stipulate dAnam to the  
deserving, given as “na mama.”  
  
kanyA dAnam is the only exception where the donor does not relinquish  
what is given. A daughter remains the daughter of the donor even after  
marriage.  
  
The entire sanyAsa Ashrama is a vrata serving all of the fellow humans  
and all the creatures. Almost all of our matAdhipatis and some sadhus  
follow this ethos of total service.  
  
Uta dEvA sUktam (rik) – uta dEvA avahitam dEvA unnayathA punaH…  
sanyAsa sUktam (yajus) – tyAgEnaikE amr\`tatvamAnashuH  
abhyudaya niHshrEyasa sa sidDhiH sa DharmaH – vaishEshika sUtra  
shanti mantrAH – tachChanyOrA vr\`NImahE, idA dEvahUH, etc.  
  
smr\`ti-purANas countless times extol serving the humanity and all of  
creation (some members have already quoted some). Our daily prayer is  
sarvE bhavanti sukhinaH,… etc. Action can only follow by the mind  
engaged in such or similar prayer.  
  
As for India’s social turmoil, the exploitations have been mostly by  
the rich and the politically powerful, irrespective of the vEda,  
shAstras, caste, or creed. A. Raja is no brAhmaNa. The same  
communities are also well known for charity through the door of  
Bhagawan (here too the DMK is an exception). We only need to look at  
the numerous temples administered by these communities engaging in  
daily anna daanam or providing free education for the poor. Many Hindu  
religious, cultural, and social institutions are deeply involved in  
charity, education, and health programs. Sree Satya Sai Baba’s work  
has been in the news a lot, but in general, such works largely go  
unnoticed because it is not the trend to report them. Most of the  
social reformers over the last 1,000 or so years have been from the  
brAhmaNa community. An example: A while ago in Maharashtra a major  
fund drive was taken up for Dalit cause. Almost all donors had last  
names suggesting there were from brAhmaNa families. If you are into  
real service, you know many such episodes.  
  
In Hindu scriptures as well as in the Hindu society, charity or  
service is not lacking. Only its publicity is not pursued because  
there is no motive to seek anything in return. Hindus are not after  
harvesting the souls. Certainly we must do lot more to our own, as  
such, coming out of colonial bleeding and now blindly aping the cut-  
throat capitalism as if it is nirvana.  
  
By the way, was Kalidasa an authority on Dharma shAstras? If so, can  
today's science fiction (or some English drama of Shakespeare) be a  
justification for a case in science?  

  
On May 22, 1:43pm, Upendra Watwe \<[upendra.wa...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



