+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-02-26, 18:46:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/FQzFnv24_p4)]]



  

ajapaala to kaalidaasa



There was a king's daughter in Ujjayini who was very learned.

When proposals for her marriage started coming, she said

that she would marry only that person who would excel her

in scholarship.



In the process of selecting such a person, all known scholars

got defeated by the Rajakumari.



Some of them wanted to teach her a lesson for her audacity.

They went round for finding a dull person. They found a shepherd

sitting on the branch of a tree and cutting the wrong end. If he

had finished the cutting the branch would have fallen down along

with him. They thought that this was a suitable person to be palmed

on the Rajakumari.



They persuaded the ajapala or the shepherd to come down.

They offered him a suitable dress and asked him to follow

to the king’s palace. They asked him not to open his mouth

and answer anyquestions.



He was taken to the assembly hall where the debate with the

princess would take place.



The princess would sit in one end of the hall and the scholars

would sit facing her. There would be a curtain between them

and the debate would take place without anyone seeing her.

There was a painting of Ravana on the curtain facing the

scholars. As soon as the shepherd reached the hall he saw

the painting and he said. ABBBBATA RAABHANAA.



अब्बभ्भट राभण



The princes immediately objected to the wrong pronunciation

of the name Ravana.



The scholars wanted to deceive the princess saying that what

the suitor said was correct. They said –



bhakaarah kumbhakarnesti bhakaarosti vibhiishane /

tasmaat raakshasarajoyam raabhano na tu raavanah //



भकार: कुम्भकर्णेस्ति

भकारोस्ति विभीषणे /

तस्मात् राक्षसराजोयं

राभणो न तु रावण: //



Kumbhakarna the brother of Raavana has bha in his name.

Vibhiishana the brother of Raavana has bha in his name.

Therefore this king of raakshasas must be Raabhana and not Raavana.



The suitor was declared the winner. The Rajakumari had to marry him.



To be continued.







-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

  

  

