+++
title = "000 Dr. T. Mahendar"

+++
[[Dr. T. Mahendar	2015-08-15, 12:48:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Pv75ze6NAIY)]]



Congratulations to all respected scholars.  

Press Information Bureau  
Government Of India  
Ministry of Human Resource Development  
(15-August, 2015 07:39 IST )

Press Note  
  
 The President is pleased to award the Certificate of Honour to the following scholars of Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic and Pali/Prakrit:  
  
 SANSKRIT  
  
1. Dr. (Mrs.) Shashi Tiwari  
2. Shri Lakshmishwar Jha  
3. Prof. Sudhakar Dixit  
4. Prof. G. Mahabaleshwara Bhat  
5. Sri S.M. Veeraraghavachar  
6. Veda Ratna Keshav Sitaram Jogalekar  
7. Shri A. Haridas Bhat  
8. Pd. Shrikrishna Shastri Kashinath Shastri Joshi (Kodanikar)  
9. Dr. Ramkishor Shukla  
10. Shri Gullapalli Venkatanarayana Ghanapathi  
11. Shri Hari Dutt Sharma  
12. Prof. Om Prakash Pandey  
13. Dr. Kailash Chandra Dave  
14. Pd. Jagannath Shastri Telang  
15. Dr. Vachaspati Maithani  
  
 SANSKRIT (INTERNATIONAL)  
  
1. Shri Asko Parpola

 ARABIC  
  
1. Dr. Nizarudeen A.  
  
2. Prof. Mohammad Hassan Khan  
  
PERSIAN  
  
1. Dr. Ghulam Rasool Jan  
  
2. Prof. (Dr.) Mohammad Munawwar Masoodi  
  
3. Shri Ihsan Karim Burke  
  
PALI  
1. Prof. Pradyumna Dubey  
  
 In addition, the Hon’ble President is also pleased to award the Maharshi Badrayan Vyas Samman to the following young scholars of Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic and Pali/Prakrit.  
  
  
SANSKRIT  
  
1. Dr. Viroopaksha V. Jaddipal  
  
2. Dr. Ratna Mohan Jha  
  
3. Dr. Bishnupada Mahapatra  
  
4. Dr. Prasad Prakash Joshi  
  
5. Dr. Deviprasad Mishra  
  
  
  
ARABIC  
  
  
1. Dr. Heifa Shakri  
  
  
PERSIAN  
  
  
1. Dr. Imran Ahmed Chaudhry  
  
  
PALI  
  
  
1. Shri Dhammadeep Pandhari Wankhede  
  
 The distinction is conferred once a year on the Independence Day in recognition of substantial contribution in the field of Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic and Pali/Prakrit.  

Dr. T. Mahendar,  
   Asst. Professor,  
Special centre for Sanskrit Studies  
JAWAHARLAL NEHRU UNIVERSITY  
New Delhi.  
095552 43989  



