+++
title = "000 Arvind Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind Kolhatkar	2010-11-15, 22:39:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/gA4uIjGgGgc)]]



Dear Group,

  

The following is a copy of a posting I had made to the Internet List called 'India' in the rootsweb family of Lists three years ago. It is self-contained.

  

In the context of the separately ongoing discussion about Science and Technology in the Vedas and Shastras, here is a concrete example of actual advanced work done by Hindu mathematicians of Kerala a few centuries ago, as presented by Charles Whish. Should anyone be interested in having a digital version, please drop a line and I shall send it in a common mail off-Group after a week.

  

(Copy begins.)

  

I happen to have on my hard disk a digital version of a paper written by  
Charles M. Whish in whom you are interested. The head-note of the paper is  
self-explanatory and reads:  
  
\<Hindu Quadrature of the Circle, and the infinite Series of the proportion  
of the circumference to the diameter.  
  
On the Hindu Quadrature of the Circle, and the infinite Series of the  
proportion of the circumference to the diameter exhibited in the four  
Sastras, the Tantra Sangraham, Yucti Bhasha, Carana Padhati, and  
Sadratnamala. By CHARLES M. WHISH, Esq., of the Hon. East-India Company's  
Civil Service on the Madras Establishment.  
  
(Communicated by the MADRAS LITERARY SOCIETY AND AUXÂ­ILIARY ROYAL ASIATIC  
SOCIETY.)  
  
Read the 15th of December 1832.>  
  
This a survey of the various approximations of the value of pi, the constant  
that represents the ratio between the circumference and diameter of a  
circle, as obtained from various Sanskrit texts, starting from Aryabhatta's  
Aryabhateeyam (5th century A.D.), Bhaskaracharya's Leelavati (11th century  
A.D.) and reaching into less well-known texts in the 18th and 19th  
centuries.  
  
Searching [books.google.com](http://books.google.com) for Charles Whish, I found a reference to the  
same paper in the book at <http://tinyurl.com/2h46nx>. Google also throws up  
several references to Charles Whish and his above referred paper.
These  
references show that some of the propositions ascribed to European  
mathematicians such as Gregory and Leibniz were known to Indian  
mathematicians a few centuries earlier. While on this point let me touch  
upon another well-publicized example. The so-called Pell's Equation was  
known to and solved by Bhaskaracharya a few centuries earlier and a problem  
solved by him in his 'Beej-gaNita' appeared centuries later as a problem  
proposed by Fermat (well-known for Fermat's Last Theorem) to another  
mathematician. (For example, visit  
<http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/HistTopics/Pell.html>)  
  
I now find from your exchange of mails in the India List that Charles Whish  
died on April 14, 1833, aged 38, at or near Caddapah, which is today in the  
state of Andhra Pradesh, but earlier was in the Madras Presidency.
Though  
Caddapah is not very close to Kerala, I would think that he had fairly good  
contacts in that region as many of the texts and pundits he mentions are  
from that area. Perhaps he did service in that region earlier in his life.  
  
He emerges as one of the few officials who took interest in the local  
traditions of knowledge and made efforts to understand it. It is ironic to  
note that Macaulay was writing his famous minute equating all Indian fund of  
knowledge as being equal to a shelf or two in any European library - (or  
words to that effect) at the very time when Whish was reading his paper!  
  
How short were the lives of many of those who were building an empire in  
far-away India. Charles Whish was reading his paper in December 1832 and by  
April 1833 he was already dead, aged only 38!  
  
If you are interested in the full text of the Whish's paper, please write to  
me off-list and shall email it to you.  
  
I am also sending this mail to the British Raj List as I am sure there would  
be Listers interested in reading the above.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, April 07, 2007.

  

(Copy ends.)

  

Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, November 15, 2010.  


