+++
title = "005 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2019-01-11, 04:50:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/njPHSdpzmFs)]]



May I add a little further to my earlier response =>

\(1\) व्रजभुवि - in this land known as व्रजभू (land, where (cows) graze)

-   The verbal root व्रज् has a general meaning "to go about", "to
    wander". But it also has the specific context of grazing of cows.
    That context is replete with extended meaning. Among animals Cow is
    the animal, which does not do any harm to anybody. Not only that it
    does not do any harm, it is most benevolent
-   The people, who reside in व्रजभू are all cows, who do not harbor any
    enmity with anybody, would not harm anybody, would be eager to be
    benevolent unto every other person. व्रजभू is that land, where only
    such cows graze, only such devotees happily live.
-   May there be such व्रजभू-s everywhere ! There need not be only one
    व्रजभू at only one geographical location. Every place where the
    environment is appropriate as a व्रजभू is a व्रजभू.
-   May I experience the environment of व्रजभू, wherever I am ! -   Often times it comes to mind that when leaders of two countries
    meet, they sign many agreements. Why not have a single-line
    agreement that "Together, we shall strive to make both our countries
    to be व्रजभू-s !" -   Cow is considered to be an abode of 330 million Gods. Maybe, this
    count of 330 million is suggestive that the cow represents the
    mathematical set of God-like, harmless and benevolent elements, -
    330 million of them ! 

\(2\) Maratha King छत्रपति शिवाजी महाराज (1630-1680) was disciple of संत रामदास, who composed many advisory verses. One such composition is मनाचे श्लोक. Like this मनः शिक्षा education of the mind, मनाचे श्लोक are also advices to the mind. There are 205 stanzas, in भुजंगप्रयात meter (every stanza has 4 lines of 12 letters each, the letters in 1-2-2, 1-2-2, 1-2-2, 1-2-2 rhythm)

Maybe, you would like to read through their English translation at \<<http://manache-shloka.blogspot.com/2011/05/original-marathi-text-is-available-at.html>\>

