+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2017-08-22, 19:49:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/mq37gf570Cw)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Vinayaka Chaturthi** falls on **Friday (25/Aug/2017**), I am delighted to share a rare **Trishati** (300 names) of **Lord Sharadesha** taken from **Vinayaka Tantram**. The brief **Phalashruti** mentions that one who recites this hymn gets all enjoyment and wealth in this world and attains emancipation.

  

Readers might remember that in **Vinayaka Tantram**, **Lord Vinayaka** is also praised in the form of **Sharadesha** (consort of **Goddess Sharada**, i.e. **Saraswati**) with Ashtottaram, Trishati, Sahasranama, Hrudayam and Kavacham. I had shared the Ashtottaram a couple of years ago.

  

This **Tantram** praises **Siddhi** and **Buddhi**, the consorts of **Lord Ganesha**, as none other than **Lakshmi** and **Saraswati** respectively. **Lakshmi Ganapati** is one of the sixteen forms of **Mahaganapati**(**Shodasha Mahaganapati**). Readers might also remember that **Brahma Vaivarta Puranam** hails **Lakshmi** and **Saraswati** (and **Ganga**) as the consorts of **Lord Vishnu**. Readers also might remember that **Lord Kartikeya** is praised as the consort of **Saraswati** in the famous **Shatru Samhara Trishati**. This doubtlessly will be confusing for the befuddled who perceive each of these forms as different.

  

There is no need to split hair over hallucinations. We saw last year that **Lord Narayana** claims that **Lord Vinayaka** is **Lord Krishna** himself (**Brahma Vaivarta Puranam**, **Prakriti Khandam**). This is pellucidly explainedin **Garuda Purana**, ***there is only one God - Lord Vishnu; all other forms are He himself in different forms***.

  

**Lord Krishna** mentions the following in **Uddhava Gita (Chapter 2)**

  

**svamAyayA sRRiShTaM idaM sadasal laxaNaM vibhuH \| praviShTa Iyate tattat sa rUpo .a gnirivaidhasi \|\| 2 - 47 \|\|**

(Meaning: *The omnipresent Lord, pervading this gross and subtle universe created by His own Maya, acts in the shape of different things like fire in the combustible things*)

  

We have seen innumerable quotes from various puranas that the one and only **Parabrahman** takes many shapes and names and it is only those dull-witted who imbue difference among them.

  

May We pray to **Lord Vighna Nayaka** on the **Vinayaka Chaturthi** day with this beautiful prayer.

  

[Samskrutam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XSmRWRTNJZ29tZGI4Q2lESkpHb3NDd2hmRUpR/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTGpiYXdTUVV0MnhQSkxXMUlhV3RnQjh6a1RZ/view?usp=sharing)  

[kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XQXZLdTZBdHVqakpLNkdKY01jSjBleDhwT3Vn/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XUVUxYUpHc2k0b0w1ak9TeUNqZ0l5MjE2eTJZ/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XNS1GTk1GM0dmN1BpTXJRVTBaSkVtVjgzZjZ3/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XNklxbWRWT1dWdUhZclNnVDMwWTZoYXBETnlN/view?usp=sharing)  

  

