+++
title = "010 R. Sivaramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[R. Sivaramakrishna Sharma	2011-10-07, 20:29:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Kzlcscckz1U)]]



I am not sure about the whole exercise of this thread. Nonetheless  
below are my thoughts.  
  
Based on my understanding of Bhashyakara Sayana, Shiva and Rudra are  
one and the same.  
  
Rudradhyaya = ShatarudriyaH == Namakam (because it contains 300  
NamaHs). Chamaka is another prapAThaka in the same Kanda (in the TS).  
  
And the concept of Puranic Shiva, Vedic Rudra etc. are all flawed, for  
Puranas are basically expanded expression of the substratum in the  
Vedas. An indepth understanding of Purana and Itihasa (apart from  
other pre-requisites) is essential for interpreting the Vedas  
correctly, according to Bhagavan Manu. While there are chances that  
Puranas in their present form might have been skewed at some time in  
the past, Puranas are by themselves, apaurusheya (as described in the  
Shiva Purana and a few other puranas). Bhagavan Vyasa was only  
instrumental in bringing them to the mortal realm, perhaps even  
simplifying them. Even more absurd is the theory of fusion (of the  
Aryan Rudra with Dravidian Shiva)!  
  
For further clarification -  
  
Shatarudriya / Rudradhyaya was originally intended to be used for  
Ishti homa before begining a Soma/Vajapeya Yajna. The earliest  
existing reference to it being used for Abhishekam etc. is in the  
Bodhayana Grihya Sutra. And this is probably the basis for  
panchayatana puja etc. Similarly, the Laghunyasa/Mahanyasa is not a  
part of Rudradhyaya when used in the Ishti homa and a part of it  
cannot be traced back to any apaurusheya grantha - they are simply  
(parampantargata) vakyas (not mantras).  
  
Also Chamaka was originally intended (and is still used) for  
Vasordhara homa, generally conducted at the end of Soma and most  
Kamyeshthis / Yajnas. Nowadays it is used at the end of Maharudra /  
Atirudra / Rudrahoma etc. just after the purnahuti in Homa. Otherwise  
it is recited just after Rudradhyaya.  
  
It is not Rudra-Puja and similarly it is not Shiva-Homa. Shiva-homa is  
a seperate affair discussed at length in the Rudrayamala and similar  
tantras (There is a Shiva-Homa known by other names in various  
reigons).  
  
Nonetheless I am in full consensus about the last sentence - The flaw  
in writings of people who are not practitioners, and far greater,  
their acceptence by others as an authority!  



