+++
title = "016 R. Sivaramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[R. Sivaramakrishna Sharma	2011-10-09, 22:49:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Kzlcscckz1U)]]



Namaste,  
  
You have understood me right. While the Mantras in the Samhitas by  
themselves do not contain any explicit references to viniyoga, it by  
the authority of Parampara that one is able to identify mantras and  
their viniyogas. So when I say, 'originally' intended, as you have  
rightly assumed, their (earliest) references in the Kalpasutras.  
  
And this is precisely why Bhashyakara Sayana among others have  
regarded the Shatarudriya as an Upanishad (despite it being in the  
Mantra-Samhita).  
  
The earliest reference to Rudram and Chamakam used for Abhishekam in  
Devata-Aaradhana, I have been able to trace is the Bodhayana Grihya  
Sutra. I am not aware of any other Kalpa-text dealing with this.  
  
Again some people seem to opine that Mantras can be 'adapted' to  
changing situations. I am not sure of any such orthodox usage as such.  
Some years back, some big Ghanapathis in South Karnataka were involved  
in \*re-assigning\* Devatas to popular Mantras in the Rigveda Samhita,  
in conjunction to their daily use. But to the best of my knowledge  
this has not found acceptance within orthodox circles, and most  
orthodox use the same devata as has been handed to them in the  
Parampara.  
  
Although the procedure for Mahanyasa has been clearly laid down in the  
Bodhayana Grihya Sutra, Ravana Mahanyasa is also present. I personally  
practice the Ravanokta Mahanyasa ( = BY parampara). Believe me, when I  
say, that even though that the sutras are two, the paddhatis are many.  
I am aware of and know of atleast 7 paddhatis including Andhra,  
Dravida (Tamil), Keraliya (Palaghaut), Gomathiya etc. all with minor  
differences here and there. There are differences even within the same  
Sutra in different paddhatis. Keraliya Paddhati does not have any Bija  
or Bija-Samputikarana at all and is by and far considered the most  
short & easy paddhati.  
  
So much for this discussion.  



