+++
title = "017 R. Sivaramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[R. Sivaramakrishna Sharma	2011-10-09, 22:59:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Kzlcscckz1U)]]



As a rejointer to my early writing,  
  
YES, the viniyoga of any Vedic mantra is generally restricted to those  
boundaries drawn by scriptural authority, which includes Kalpa-  
Sutras, (ofcourse) Parampara apart from other ancialliary texts such  
as Rigvidhanam, Tantra , Agama etc. Bodhayana Grihya Sutra is  
definitely a part of this authority.  

  
On Oct 9, 12:52pm, Viswanath B \<[vegavah...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Hi Ajit,  
\>  
\> Thanks for clarification. Yes, I am aware that Samhita itself has  
\> references to other mantras for usage. For example much of Yajurveda is said  
\> to be how we carryout the Yajna's. There is a 'only' towards the end of my  
\> question. I was half-sleepy when I wrote it. I could have been more clear.  
\>  
\> I was trying to ask, if it is limited to such homa. I guess it is not. The  
\> reason I am asking is that I got an impression from the previous discussion,  
\> that rudradhyaya is not originally 'intened' to be used the way it is today.  
\> Hence i was trying to ask if that is the case.  
\>  
\> I am not familiar with many of the texts so I thought this group can help me  
\> in understanding correctly.  
\>  
\> Thanks for teh clarification on the ravanokta mahanyasa,  
\>  
\> Thanks  
\> Vissu  

\> On Sun, Oct 9, 2011 at 3:51 AM, Ajit Krishnan \<[ajit.krish...@gmail.com]()\>wrote:  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \> namaste,  
\>  
\> \> \> the samhita itself doesn't say that the intended usage of these prasnas  
\>  
\> \> The kAThaka-brAhmaNa says "agnAviShNU iti vasrodhArAyAH".  
\>  
\> \> \> There is also one method stipulated by Ravana. I am not sure if somebody  
\> \> follows it.  
\>  
\> \> The rAvaNokta mahAnyAsa is almost the same as the bodhAyanokta mahAnyAsa.  
\> \> The difference is just some additional mantras and shlokas. Many people  
\> \> follow the rAvaNokta method (thought they may not realize it). It is quite  
\> \> common.  
\>  
\> \> sasneham,  
\>  
\> \>  ajit  
\>  



\> ...  
\>  
\> read more »

