+++
title = "012 M.B.S.Namboothiripad"

+++
[[M.B.S.Namboothiripad	2011-08-30, 14:31:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/eXB3W_E-zIk)]]



  
  
Narayaneeyam says that the earth was drowned and Parasurama only  
retrieved(reclaimed ) it.  
न्यस्यास्त्राणि महेन्द्रभुभृति तपस्तन्वन् पुनः मज्जितां  
गोकर्णावधि सागरेण धरणिं श्रुत्वार्थितः तापसैः \|  
ध्यातेष्वासधृतानलास्त्रचकितं सिन्धुं स्रुवप्रेक्षणात्  
उत्सार्योधृतकेरलो रघुपते वातेश संरक्ष माम् \|\|  
  
As per this he did not use Parasu as he had abandoned his weapons and  
he used a sruva.  
(as the malayalam saying goes --- Vallbhanu pullum aayudham - For the  
mighty a grass is also a weapon)  

  
  
On Aug 30, 10:38am, "P.K.Ramakrishnan" \<[peeka...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Agreed. Delete Mavelikkara.  But there is a famous song in Kerala in honour of Mahabali.  
\>  
\> Maaveli naatuvaneetum kalam  
\> Maanusharellaarumonnupole.  
\>  
\> Meaning - when Mahabali was ruling there was equality among the people - subjects  
\>  
\> Kallapparayum cherunazhitum  
\> Ellolamilla polivachanam.  
\>  
\> There were no false measures, nor any false words.  
\>   
\> -----------------------------------  
\> P.K.Ramakrishnanhttp://[peekayar.blogspot.com](http://peekayar.blogspot.com)  
\>  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  

\> From: shankara \<[shankara_2...@yahoo.com]()\>  
\> To: "[sams...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[sams...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
\> Cc: "[peeka...@yahoo.com]()" \<[peeka...@yahoo.com]()\>  

\> Sent: Tuesday, 30 August 2011 10:56 AM  
\> Subject: Re: \[Samskrita\] Onam  
\>  
\> Ramakrishnanji,  
\>  
\> On a side note: Chattampi Swamikal has explained Mavelikkara differently. Ma=Maha, Velikkara=Velaikkara=Seashore (he quotes the example of Veali+ettam=Veliyettam - high tide). According to him Mavelikkara was along the seashore in the past. He also says that Mavelikkara is in no way related to Maha Bali. (From "Keralathile Chila Desanamangal" by Chattampi Swamikal).  
\>   
\> regards  
\> shankara  
\>  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  

\> From: P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peeka...@yahoo.com]()\>  
\> To: "[4brahm...@yahoogroups.com]()" \<[4brahm...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; iyer123 \<[iyer...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; pattar \<[patt...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; us brahmins \<[usbrahm...@yahoogroups.com]()\>; samskrita \<[sams...@googlegroups.com]()\>  

\> Sent: Tuesday, 30 August 2011 8:30 AM  
\> Subject: \[Samskrita\] Onam  
\>  
\> Mahabali – Onam – Parasurama kshetram.  
\>   
\> According to the widely accepted notion, the ten Aavataras  
\> of Vishnu are these –  
\>   
\> matsya, kurma, varaha, narasimha, vamana, parasurama,  
\> srirama, balarama, srikrishna and kalki (yet to come).  
\>   
\> It was during Vamana Avatara king Mahabali gifted his territory to him and  
\> went to Patala. There is a place in Kerala called Mavelikkara to be  
\> expanded as Mahabali-kara supposed to be the place where Mahabali lived. Onam is celebratedas the day when King Mahabali visits his kingdom every year.  
\>   
\> Kerala is known as Parasuramakshetra. The story is that Parasurama threw his parasu  
\> or  
\> axe from Gokarnam which fell near Kanyakumari and the land in  
\> between came out of the sea. Parasurama  
\> gifted this land to Brahmins to expatiate the sin of killing his mother.  
\>   
\> The question posed is this. How can the land which came into existence during Parasurama’s time be  
\> the land ruled by Mahabali during an earlier Vamana Avatara?  
\>   
\> I request the learned members of this group to offer the  
\> reasoning for this contradiction.  
\>   
\>   
\> -----------------------------------  

\> P.K.Ramakrishnanhttp://[peekayar.blogspot.com](http://peekayar.blogspot.com)  



