+++
title = "004 P. Vasu"

+++
[[P. Vasu	2018-02-03, 22:26:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/OCRRvVWP65s)]]



Thank you for the leads.

  

Yes I would like to purchase the book if available from Sampurnananda
Univ. (or elsewhere)

The book seems to be listed in the university publication list .

But my efforts (over past two weeks)at reaching them using the contact details available in their website proved absolutely futile

If anyone (esp if any samskrita member is from this university) can help, I would appreciate it.

  

Regards

  

P. Vasu



  

On Sat, Jan 27, 2018 at 6:36 AM, श्रीमल्ललितालालितः \<[lalitaa...@lalitaalaalitah.com]()\> wrote:  

> I suggest you to buy that edition. It was published from sampUrNAnanda > university. It's still available with them and chaukhamba.  
>   
> Digital copies may be available with some of us for personal use and > circulation in close circle, but anything available publicly on net is > against interest of publishers.  
>   

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Fri 26 Jan, 2018, 6:13 AM P. Vasu, \<[vas...@gmail.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear members, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I am trying to get a copy of a publication of Pushpadanta's > > Shivmahimnah Stotram which has a commentary in Sanskrit by
> > Madhusudan Saraswati (with anvay and translation and annotations in > > Hiindi - (by NarayanTripathi, I think, not sure ) > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I had got it from a library about 5 years ago but now it is missing > > and their revamped catalog does not have any useful details > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Can anyone identify the book and tell me where a copy (hard/soft) > > would available from? > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks and regards > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Parameswaran Vasu > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 

> 
> > > --  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> > 

> 
> > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [samskrita+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 

> 
> > >   
> > To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > Visit this group at <https://groups.google.com/group/samskrita>.  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
>   
> --  
> > 
> > lalitaalaalitah,  
> [www.lalitaalaalitah.com](http://www.lalitaalaalitah.com) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [samskrita+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 



