+++
title = "004 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-04-19, 09:23:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Byb5vBi_LQk)]]



Bharat Ratna P.V.Kane states in his his 6-volume History of Hindu  
Dharmasastras that there is no mention of weekdays in both the  
Valmiki Ramayana and Mahabharatha.

Vol V Part I page 682

The Mahabharata is entirely silent on week days.  
Even Ramamyana there is no mention of week days.

The 24 hour division system was not used by Indians.

But only 60 parts which originated in Babylonia.

The method of naming weekdays has been mentioned by Aryabhata for the first time  
by an Indian astronomer. I am reproducing the sloka below.

भानामध: शनैश्चरगुरुभौमर्कशुक्रबुधचन्द्रा: /  
सप्तैते होरेशा: शनैश्चराद्या यथाक्रमं शीघ्रा: /  
शीघ्रक्रमात् चतुर्था: भवंति सूर्योदयात् दिनपा: //

Meaning: Below the stars successively fast are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun,  
Venus, Mercury and Moon.

The day is named after the planet who is the lord of the first hour  
(horeshah). Thus the first day of the week is Saturday and the lord of the  
first hour next day becomes the Sun and so on.

Probably the first day of the week was shifted to Sunday after the  
advent of Christianity.

Thus the origin of week days is based on the 24 hour division of the day.

According to P.V.Kane we Indians were following the 60 nadika division of the  
days borrowed from the Babylonians.

Hora is a Greek word. The word hour in English has come from Hora. The word  
hora is not mentioned in Amarakosha. Even Vraha-  
mihira could not explain the word hora. He says horetyahoratravikalpameke  
vaancchanti poorvaaparavarnalopaat.  
Meaning take out a and tra from ahoratra (day and night) you get  
hora. Rather funny.

Learned members may give their views.  
-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>



Joanna,









--  



