+++
title = "027 Shambhu"

+++
[[Shambhu	2011-05-02, 06:42:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Byb5vBi_LQk)]]



shradDhA  
  
Indeed, shradDhA and budDhi are sought along with vidyA and bala,  
though those praying so twice/thrice a day are dwindling now. Fire  
oblation givers are far less. However, where is the implication that  
shradDhA is limited within the human mind or to religion? Are we  
getting carried away with the stereotypical labeling of the "rational  
thinkers"? That would be only half true, if at all. shradDhA has  
cosmic nature – shradDhayAgniH samiDhyatE …. shradDhA vishvamidam  
jagat. Its grace is needed for anything we do. shradDhA is sought in  
pursuing anything, including reasoning. Reasoning founded in vikalpa  
gets us nowhere. These mental circuses were well covered by Pantanjali  
and most Indic texts on yOga. Religion is only a small part in all  
this, for the peace and calming of the mind, only as a preparation,  
like the pratyAhAra and DhAraNa in yOga. It is not an end.  
  
apauruShEyatvam  
  
What is this "date of the Veda-s to Brahma's mouth”? What is the  
source of this insight? Is apauruShEyatvam the issue? Is it silly?  
What is Brahma? What is its/his/her mouth? None of this throws any new  
insight to a matter debated pro- and con- long ago by the  
mImAmsakAras, at least from Vyasa/Jaimini time (3100 BC) or even  
before. Kumarila Bhatta killed these lOkAyata arguments. The following  
gives us a taste of the heat of those bitter debates:  
  
Kumarila Bhatta in his shlokavarttika: “Their (atheists’) conduct is  
that of monkeys and Pisaachas, because these atheists do not trouble  
their objective until the Mimamsakas themselves give them an  
opportunity of attack. And when they have once been given an  
opportunity, by such persons as borrow their imaginary attacks upon  
the authority of the scriptures, who (i.e., which scripture) can hope  
to escape alive, if once fallen in the way of their (argumentative)  
path? For these reasons, it is not right for the Mimamsakas to help  
the accomplishment of the purposes of the atheists, who are bent upon  
the destruction of all Dharma.”  
  
The Europeans, aided by the Brahmo Samajis, resurrected such attacks  
in the 18th century. Here is a nice Samskrita speech by Ma. Krishna  
Shastry mahodaya where he quotes Swami Chnmayananda’s explanation of  
apauruShEyatvam, which is quite OK for the beginners:  
  
<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=deKLPeWyKEs&feature=related>  
<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cfkH8QWZDjw&NR=1>  
<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5WWzK_X7dOs&NR=1>  
  
For the seniors in the group: Is anyone familiar with the eyewitness  
account of the very process of 450 Rik mantra revelations (in \~1912 in  
a temple near Bengaluru) - "ChandOdarshana", published by M. M. Munshi  
of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan and funded by India's first President Babu  
Rajendra Prasad? I have a copy. The account in the ChandOdarshana,  
well substantiated by scholars of the Vedas in India and Germany,  
throws enough doubt about the notions on “dating and composing” of the  
Vedas. These Rik mantras are not in the Vedas compiled by Veda Vyasa  
or in the sutra texts. Then is it meaningless when the traditionalists  
say "tasya nihshwasitam vEda...." etc.? Was the process of mantra  
revelation the same as that of writing a poem, term paper, or this  
post? Such is the opinion held by persons, irrespective of their  
devotion to reason and goodness, being far outside the Veda and yOga  
practices. It is like an engineer’s bookish “expertise” in a surgeon’s  
kidney transplanting work. These are the persons always arguing,  
thinking themselves only to be the reasoned, with little aDhikAra (I  
use this word in the shad-darshana-context, i.e., practical in-depth  
expertise of the subject matter, and not with any sense of high-low).  
The ChandOdarshana account establishes such an opinion as pure  
fiction, based on no evidence but just mere denial. In reasoned  
enquiry, one proof is proof enough. Anyway, this ‘apauruShEyatvam’  
issue is a diversion from the 7-day week names’ issue.  
  
Roman texts for week names  
  
The pUrvapakSha’s objections raised in the thread are just as valid  
for the Semitic sources, if any. (What are they? What times?) Week  
names appearing in the Semitic/Western literature/histrionics, such as  
the Bible or Caesar’s life stories, are back calculated or  
extrapolated in their translations! Some objections:  
•Many of the Western week name mappings are real stretches from one  
culture to another.  
•Other than “Saturday”, none of the English/Germanic names are  
linkable to the Roman names with little logic or reason.  
•The “IE linguistics” branch to Germany, England, or Ireland hailed  
from the Indo-Iranian through the Baltic, not through Greece and Rome.  
•Further, there are only Western, that too highly superstitious,  
astrology books connecting the week name sequence to the Roman myth  
that is hardly science.  
•There is no critical reasoning or scientific basis.  
  
Instead of all this Semitic word play, what we see is the direct one-  
to-one mapping of the names to the visible grahas’ sidereal speeds  
with an astronomically correct method in the Akkadian/Vedic scheme and  
an at least 1000-year later indirect or secondary development in  
others (Roman, Irish, Germanic, Chinese, Japanese, etc.) that most  
likely arose from the original, what we know today as scientific,  
scheme.  
  
The IE Linguistics  
  
The IE linguistics scholars place vAsara as a late Aryan (Vedic) word  
of the Indo-Iranian branch; it went to Lathvia and Luthvenia (meaning  
‘summer’) and Finland (meaning ‘hammer’). vajra is its IE cognate.  
This vajra in the purANas is daDhIchi’s bone (not diamond) that was  
made into a weapon for Indra. This was an IE language development  
several centuries before Buddha. Either way we examine, vAsara  
connected to the Sun (Lat./Luth. summer) and weapon (Finnish vAsara  
and Vedic vajra) and the seven-day vAsara-naming scheme, including the  
very word vAsara, takes us to the Akkadians and their southeastern  
Vedic cousins some 4000-5000 years ago, not later. By VajrAyana time,  
vajra had become the attribute of Buddhist shUnyata (the reality) - it  
was no longer a weapon per se but might have been a symbol of a weapon  
“to pierce the reality”.  
  
Text references to vAsara  
  
Sure, vAsara is a trivial issue in the panchAngam – it needs little  
analysis to figure out unlike the tithi, nakShatra, bhAva, bala,  
varga, etc. However there are vAsara based vratas and vidhis in the  
shAstras, the padDhatis, and practice, such as: if one attains  
daivaadheenam on buDhavAsara, no vAsara-based prAyaschitta is imposed  
(in the padDhati I follow). Even the samkapla scheme is based on the  
panchAngam, although it appears in the purANas. These take us to the  
sUtras and the padDhatis that grew out of them and Jyotisha/jAtaka  
schemes.  
  
1. Mihara’s br\`hadjAtaka has this (verse 2.14):  
Ayana kShaNa vAsara r\`tavO mAsO-arDham cha samAscha BhAskarAt  
  
2. Prashna Marga, verse 80:  
phalAni kalpyatE yEna tasya kAlOyanAdikaH;  
tadBhuktAmshakasanKhyAGnastatsidDhau samudIryatAm  
  
B. V. Raman (quoting the above): The time-periods allotted to  
different planets are: the Sun – ayana (6 months), the Moon – kShaNa  
(48 minutes), Mars – vAsara (one week), budha – Rithu (two months),  
Guru – mAsa (one month), shukra – arDha (a fortnight), and shani –  
sama (one year) based on the verse 2.14 of Mihira (50 BC). These times  
are those when the BhAvvas fructify. Since the BhAva calculation is  
integral in all Jyotisha hOra texts following Mihara, we can only  
surmise that the vAsara scheme was not just known but practiced by the  
Jyotishis in India since Varaha Mihira’s time. Any number of Jyotisha  
texts (ayyayyO! little is online) dealing with BhAvasphuta can be  
quoted as references for the vAsara scheme in the Indian tradition.  
Anyone in this group who is an expert in Jyotisha practice (not just  
theory) may prove or disprove.  
  
Mihira was one of the navaratnas in King Vikramaditya’s (102 BC to 15  
AD) court, along with Mahakavi Kalidasa. varAha was a title bestowed  
on Mihira by the king for his correct prediction of yuvaraja’s death  
by a varAha. It was the state emblem varAha that fell off a flag post  
and killed the prince at age 18. The Gupta Vikramaditya had no such  
emblem.  
  
The other text thread is that of the padDhatis. However, whatever we  
have now are all post-Mihira and therefore they don’t add any  
additional value to the pratipakSha.  
  
3. I have seen several netizen comments that vAsara (for week day) is  
in aTharvavEda parishiSTa (at least 400 BC). I have not seen the text  
and therefore can’t write anything further.  
  
4. vEnkatEsha suprabhaatam, verse 6 has the word “vAsara”, meaning  
panchAngam (Author: SrI hastigiri aNNan, 14-15th century):  
  
pa\~NcAnana-abjabhava-ShaNmukha-vAsavAdyA:  
traivikramAdi caritam vibudhA: stuvanti  
bhAShApati: paThati vAsara-shuddhim ArAt  
shEShAdri-shEkhara-vibhO tava suprabhAtam  
  
ahOrAtri  
  
The 24-hour cycle is global, including the pole regions, as is readily  
apparent with any spinning ball in the physics experiments. Since the  
sidereal Sun is never directly along the pole axis, except for the two  
pole points, there is always a 24-hour cyclical (almost like a cosine  
wave) solar motion over the polar regions involving coming up (udaya)  
and going down (asta) of the Sun - in spite of the Sun being visible  
for about six months on either pole region. During the nearly six-  
months’ “polar night” as well there is this 24-hour cyclical variation  
in the night light level. Therefore, sUryOdayAt-to-sUryOdayAt duration  
all over the globe, except for the two pole points, is an average of  
24 hours. An explanation is here for the nearly cosine (or sine)  
variation of sunlight with a 24-hour period on any place over the  
Earth: <http://www.newton.dep.anl.gov/askasci/env99/env006.htm>  
  
This curve shifts up or down (more light, or less light) on the light  
intensity scale depending on the location on the Earth and the Earth’s  
location in its nearly elliptical orbit around the Sun. The  
calculation involves spherical geometry.  
  
There are also ahOrAtri definitions in ch. 1 of Manusmr\`ti pertaining  
to the Earth (us), the pitr\`s (our chandramAsa), the dEvas (our  
varSha), and the Aditya maNdala (1000 mahAyugas). Cosine relationships  
as noted above but with increasing periods (one chandramAsa, one  
varSha, etc.) give the integrated picture of the celestial day-night  
levels we experience. It is a little difficult to visualize the  
various motions of the Earth itself, and the scheme of Manusmr\`ti is  
quite an elegant integration that covers all these upto the rotational  
movement of the solar-system-as-whole around the galactic center.  
Manusmr\`ti by its internal evidences (reference to Saraswati river,  
etc.) must be of pre-mahAbhArata times.  



