+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2017-02-20, 22:14:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/gFZhPknvPjY)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Sri Mahashivratri** falls on **24-Feb-2017 (Fri)**, I am delighted to share a very beautiful hymn titled **Sri Vyasashtakam** taken from **Skanda Puranam, Kashi Khandam,** and **Chapter 95.** Although it is titled **Vyasashtakam** (implying a prayer on **Sage Vyasa**), it is actually prayer by **Sage Vyasa** on **Lord Rudra**.

  

The potency of this prayer can be gleaned from the brief **Phalashruti** which mentions that **Lord Shankara** gets immensely pleased with one who recites this hymn with devotion and gets redemption from even the goriest of the sins such as patricide, matricide, infanticide, killing of cow, drinking of alcohol, etc. and **Lord Shiva** resides with him eternally.

  

**Sage Vyasa** establishes the greatness of **Lord Shiva** unequivocally in this prayer and even makes some categorical statements that shall definitely raise the eyebrows of jaundice-eyed religious charlatans. For example, heclaims that **Lord Vishwanatha** is unfathomable even to even **Lord Vishnu**, **Lord Brahma**, and **Goddess Saraswati** (Stanza 5).

  

In stanza 8, he claims that he (Sage Vyasa) neither is aware of nor prays to any **Deva** other than **Lord Trinetra** (**Lord Shiva**) and he corroborates this as eternal truth with the word **Satyam** thrice. This kind of statements comes from different Devas/Sages on different deity forms (e.g. **Adi Shankara** says the same to **Lord Subrahmanya** in **Subrahmanya Bhujangam**). If we look at the innumerable compositions of **Sri Muthuswamy Dikshitar**, he repeats the same message to almost every deityon whom he composed krithis!

  

**So, obviously we become confused and it makes us wonder howthese sages can be so shameless and hypocritical to utter so many blatantlies like this and yet preach us to adhere to dharma and be truthful?**

  

Or is it? If we take off our partisan-tinted glasses, it will dawn on us that **these sages don't fail us - we fail them**. They don't consider deity forms as different gods as we mortals do. We have seen this in innumerable quotes from scriptures - belonging to all colors/sects - in the last several years. We have also seen that **Varaha Purana declares one who considers Shiva and Vishnu as different is a lowly outcaste** (**adhama**). Do we need any more?

  

There is a rare Shiva Sahasranama titled **Vedasara Shiva Sahasranama** in **Padma Puranam** and it is mentioned that **Lord Vishnu** constantly prays to **Lord Shiva** with this Sahasranama. In this Sahasranama, **Lord Krishna** says thus:

  

**sa shivaH sa mahAdevaH sha\~Nkarashca nira\~njanaH \| tasmAn nAnyaH paro devas triShu lokeShu vidyate \|\|**

(***Meaning: He is Lord Shiva, Mahadeva, Shankara, and Niranjana. There is no greater Deva than him in all of the three worlds***)

  

Further, he says that ***He (Lord Krishna/Vishnu)arises from the left side of Lord Shiva's body (**and **Lord Brahma from the right side)***:

**vAmA\~NgAd abhavaM tasya so.ahaM viShnur iti smRRitaH \| janayAmAsa dhAtAraM daxiNA\~NgAt sadAshivaH \|\|**

  

If there indeed is any disparity among them, they should be fighting with each other, not us because our worldly quarrel can be of no help in their abodes. Is there any evidence of one ill-treating the other because of his perceived superiority? Nope. If it is indeed so, will they utter such respectful words to each other? If they worship each other with intense devotion and claim there is no difference among them, who are we to indulge in such daffy difference seeking attitude?

  

So, the question - **who is a greater god- Shiva or Vishnu or Brahma**? - is not only invalid and illegitimate - but alsois a sign that one who engages in such pursuitdoesn't really value his/her invaluable time. There is a slightly derogatory proverb in Tamil which precisely explains this predicament (வேலையில்லாத நாவிதன் பூனையைப் போட்டு சிரைத்தானாம்) which literally means "A barber without work to do started shaving a cat". I am sure this proverb exists in every language - at least there is an equivalent in Telugu and Kannada.

  

The one and only pursuit of an **asthika** is spiritual advancement for the self - not to look for differences in vital statistics in deity forms - which we can't even comprehend - which sages have corroborated as deadly sin.

  

If you look at the book "**Vrat Parichaya**" from **Gita Press**, it is claimed that one who perceives differences between **Shiva** and **Narayana** will get afflicted with severe stomach ailments in the next birth (in addition to the other sufferings) and there is a lifelong **Vrat** to seek forgiveness and relief.

  

May We Pray To Lord Shiva who is also Lord Narayana and Lord Brahma with this beautiful prayer of Sage Vyasa on Sri Mahashivratri day! May He Bless Us With Real/Eternal Knowledge!

  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XMlFQajRZYjI3cGM/view?usp=sharinghttps://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XMlFQajRZYjI3cGM/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XZ1d0QmhRU29SUjQ/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XbmctbUVkeTgycFk/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XcVRFVEF6c1VrUm8/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XalY1RUZTbV9RSFk/view?usp=sharing)  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XVzhLZWJCQnFrRk0/view?usp=sharing)  

