+++
title = "000 V.Vasudeva Sarma"

+++
[[V.Vasudeva Sarma	2015-07-19, 17:01:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/G_HEKt3xQw0)]]



Experience in trying to use DLI reminds me of the Panchatantra story about the fox and crane. Fox invited the crane for dinner and served it in a plate. Crane's long beak was of no use & it returned hungry. Then crane invited the fox for dinner and served it in a narrow necked jar. Fox went hungry. My situation with DLI is same. It has some of the finest books & serves it through a most unfriendly technology. I can't read a single book. With Chrome having removed plugin support, I can't download that Alternate Tiff. I am also not so tech savvy to follow the tips given by the well-meaning members of this group. DLI could easily adopt the technology of [archives.org](http://archives.org). I hope they do it.

  

  

  
On Monday, November 10, 2014 at 7:34:22 PM UTC+5:30, Arvind_Kolhatkar wrote:

> 
> > Dear Friends, >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I have been a regular user of several digital libraries, such as > [archive.org](http://archive.org), [scribd.com](http://scribd.com), > DLI etc. Among these three, I find that > [archive.org](http://archive.org) is the easiest to use and the most > user-friendly. I Any book in their vast collection can be instantly > read online or can be downloaded in minutes in any of their several > formats. The experience with DLI is the worst. The site is down very > often. Even when it is running, it does not respond to a request sent > to it. You see in their collection a book you would love to have but > reaching to it is almost impossible. I am writing this mail to know > what are your experiences with DLI and whether we can collectively act > to bring our problems to the attention of the administrators of DLI. > I am sure many members of this Group rely on DLI for old books about > Indian History, Religion, Sanskrit studies etc. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I have so far managed with the help of two freeware DLI downloader > programs - DLI Downloader 024 available at > [sanskritdocuments.org](http://sanskritdocuments.org) > anddli-downloader-5.4-jar-with-dependencies.jar. I was usually able > to download books by using one of these, albeit with several > frustrating breakdowns of connections etc Of late I find that now DLI > does not respond to either of these two. Now the only way I can > download a book is by downloading individual pages in the .tif format, > which the only format in which DLI provides its material. This method > is very labor-intensive and time consuming. A 300-page book takes up > several hours of patient work, a task that can be achieved on > [orchive.org](http://orchive.org) in minutes. Sometimes, DLI refuses > to send even the .tif images, making its role totally irrelevant for > its potential users. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I would be very thankful for suggestions tips about how to use these > above-mentioned softwares, in case I am missing someting. Let me also > state that I am not very tech-savvy as computers came into my life > very late. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Arvind Kolhatkar. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 

