+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2015-11-09, 21:16:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/SUmujW33WiU)]]



> Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  style="color:#000;background-color:#fff;font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > 
> >  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > Dear All, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  style="color:#000;background-color:#fff;font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Greetings and Namaste. As Deepavali is just a few days away, I would > like to take this occasion to wish you, your family, kith and kin a > very happy Deepavali and festivities. May The Festival of Lights > Illuminate every facet of your life and bring the best in yourselves. > May Lord Shower You With Dharmic Happiness all around! >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > In this connection, I am very happy to share a short but very > beautiful prayer on **Lord Vishnu** by **Anga** taken from **Padma > Purana, Bhumi Khanda, Chapter 32** titled **Anga Vara Pradanam**. Anga > was bestowed with the boon of progeny as a sequel to this prayer. > Though there is no separate **Phalashruti** in the same chapter, the > hymn is an exquisite prayer of surrender unto His Lotus Feet. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > In **Padma Puranam**, **Kriya Khandam** and **Chapter 3**, **Lord > Narayana** stipulates several characteristics and conditions of who > can be termed as a **Vaishnava Jana** (i.e. a **Vaishnavite**) to > **Lord brahma**. Itis a long one running to pages but a few samples > below: >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > \- devoid of lust, anger, hurt (of others), hypocrisy, deceit, greed, > infatuation, envy, etc. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > \- adheres to Shastras, Vishnu Puja with Tulasi, studies Vedas, > performs vidya danam etc. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > \- **sees Vishnu, Shiva and Brahma as equal** (**samAnaM ye ca > pashyanti tvAM ca mAM ca maheshvaram**) >
> 
> > 
> > \- has intense devotion to Ganga, Ganga Snana and Ganga Mahatmya > (**ga\~NgA snAna ratA ye ca ga\~NgA nAma parAyaNAH \| ga\~NgA mAhAtmya > vaktAro GYeyAs te vaiShNavA janAH \|\|** ) >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > \- one who does not abuse others (**para nindA na kurvanti GYeyAs te > vaiShNavA janAH \|\|**) >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > \- **one who does NOT have hypocritical devotion butaspires for > devotion to Shiva and observes Chaturdashi Vrata** (**pAkhaNDa bhakti > rahitAH shiva-bhakti-parAyaNAH \| caturdashI vrata ratA GYeyAs te > vaiShNavA janAH \|\|)** >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Do we need to second-guess where ordinary mortals like us will measure > in the above scale of bhakti, regardless of our education, leanings > and practices? And can't we see how our sacred texts rubbish sectarian > thoughts and beliefs emphatically and without fear or favor?A > nonsense is a nonsense regardless how much esoteric we claim that to > be. And can't we see that we can't create any short-cut to His Mercy > and all are equal contenders for his mercy? >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > **May The Festival of Lights dispel the darkness of our ignorance and > Illuminate Us With True Knowledge!** >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Once again best wishes for great Deepavali Festivities. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > [Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5Xb0pManNxaEM0Q3cyQkFrZzN0X2RoWHU1ZTJB/view?usp=sharing)  
> > 
> > 
> > [Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XVE8xUU9kZk5OV29aTjdLdkdZSjBqSFpmV0Rj/view?usp=sharing)  
> > 
> > 
> > [Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XamVLVjJGTnRUbDdhYjhUNUlpVER5OGlqeXRn/view?usp=sharing)  
> > 
> > 
> > [Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XekxHQUtQYU5kc1hDRjlUM1dvNjlXM3JlUmZV/view?usp=sharing)  
> > 
> > 
> > [Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XcnpBanVMOGYxZk0zVElpR1pueUNaTlZjUDdF/view?usp=sharing)  
> > 
> > 
> > [English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XSGhGMTNqR3RxVzl0cVZPTnhZVm5fZ3RsS05r/view?usp=sharing)  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

  

