+++
title = "005 SriKanth!"

+++
[[SriKanth!	2011-09-24, 17:46:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/2tWNvpWd0gw)]]



Shri Vidya R mahodayaa has aptly put. However I feel that is from the  
point of view of a Bharathiya - one who has good knowledge and  
cherishes their culture. If our children have chance to grow with that  
mindset, the question won't even arise. These days children are  
growing up in a highly westernized education system, they learn A,B,C  
at 2.5 years of age and even teaching their mother-tongue becomes the  
duty of the parents.  
  
Though I very much like Bharatam and its culture, Samskrit didn't  
interest me much as I thought that is just another language. It is  
when I learnt that many of the words I use in my mother-tongue (tamil)  
was in fact had roots in Sanskrit, my views towards Sanskrit changed.  
This was when I was studying 10th standard, since then my interest  
grew up and after nearly 15 years I took my first step to learn  
Samskrit at age of 27.  
  
In this circumstance, Sai mahodaya's question is very much relevant.  
We should teach our children that Samskrit is not just another  
language and give them the feel of Samskrit at an early age. Even now  
there are not much material for that purpose while not just children  
even grownup parents dont know much about Samskrit.  
  
There are both Secular and Religious benefits in learning Samskrit.  
When performing Puja etc, after learning Samskrit, the bhavana  
changes, we mean what we say. Learning Samskrit also gives us access  
to vast amount of literature. We can illustrate in this way in a much  
more detailed manner.  
  
I think Samskrita Bharati is doing a fantastic job in motivating  
people to learn Sanskrit by their spoken samskrit campaigns. Here are  
some speeches by Sri Chamu Krishna Shastry on topics like Kimartham  
Samskritam etc. You may take a look at these.  
  
<http://surasa.net/music/samskrta-vani/sbharati.php>  
  

