+++
title = "000 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2017-01-23, 19:32:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/4hRmZqbO4k8)]]



Valmiki addresses Rama asकाकुस्थ at several places to tell that he is from the lineage of Raja Kaakusta.

The real name ofकाकुस्थ was Puranjaya son of vikushi alias sasaada( rabbit eater).

Indra requested Puranjaya to help him in his fight with asuras. Puranjaya asked for a suitable vahana. Indra immediately agreed & became a bull.

Puranjaya fought asuras mounting on the hump of the bull. Thus he earned the nameकाकुस्थ ..

Hump is calledककुद् .  

  

My inferences are:

  

1) Jallikattu is existing before Ramayana days itself, because in jallikattu also participants hold on to the hump in the game.Thusit cannot be attributed to Tamilnadu alone.. It is an Indian sport altogether.  

  

2\) emperors from kaakusta lineage were called Kaakvansh & later became the rulers of Tamilnadu too. In Tamil they are called as kaakatiyaas.This includes Samudra Gupta too who extended his territory upto today's Salem. Later his grandson defeated Chola king & in turn he was defeated by Pandiya king. That is why this sport is very famous in present day Chola & Pandiya kingdoms ( Tanjore, Trichy, Madurai etc) whereas this is not that popular in pallava & chera kingdoms ( Chennai , kerala) Thus it is evident that the sport came to TN from North.

  

more about this here:

<http://www.jatland.com/home/Kakran>  

  

3\) Am I right?

  

4)What is the equivalent word for jallikattu in Samskritam?

  

  

