+++
title = "023 धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>"

+++
[[धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>	2010-08-27, 21:04:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/DREIPSeT8oI)]]



So true. These academic/pedants just miss the point. I have the same  
thought about that pedant भास्कर who wrote that unnecessarily complex  
book called लीलावती.

Look at this needless complexity:  
प्रथमम् अगमत् अह्ना योजने यो जनेशस् तदनु ननु कयासौ ब्रूहि यातोऽध्व-  
वृद्ध्या/  
अरि-करि-हरणार्थम् योजनानाम् अशीत्या रिपु-नगरम् अवाप्तस् सप्त-रात्रेण  
धीमन्//  
(meaning) On an expedition to seize his enemy's elephants, a king  
marched two yojanas the first day. Say, intelligent calculator, with  
what increasing rate of daily march did he proceed, since he reached  
his foe's city, a distance of eighty yojanas, in a week? (translation  
thanks to <http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Biographies/Bhaskara_II.html>  
)

Then you are supposed to do the arithmetic and calculate 22/7 . Then  
after that he forgets about the king and talks about differences in  
arithmetic series. Such pedantry. We should be interested in what  
happened to the king - did he win? did he marry a beautiful  
princess?... We should not be interested in the general properties of  
numbers.

Nuances of mathematics are best learnt through actual going on war  
expeditions, and not through discussion about arithmetic progressions  
in general. No point translating Bhaskara in English either. Alexander  
and Puru used battle-elephants and campaigns with great effect. The  
first should be studied in Greek, the second in prAkRta. That is how  
you should learn about counting elephants and days of military  
campaigns.

Yay, what fun. Let us firmly close the mathematics book - I never  
scored well on maths class tests anyway.

Regards,  
Dhananjay  
P.S. This particular satire was used so that I could quote a pretty  
saMskRta verse from the लीलावती - this may be of interest to the  
saMskRta mailing list.

For the satire-challenged, here is a summary. (A) The study of  
mathematics in general and (B) the counting of actual things in  
particular situations, both have valid goals. The goals are not the  
same. It is incorrect to say that you could reach the general  
mathematics goal by looking at particular instances of counting, never  
generalizing.  
Similarly (A) the study of linguistics in general, and (B) the  
savoring of a particular verse of poetry, both have valid goals. The  
goals are not the same. It is incorrect to say that you could reach  
the general linguistics goal by looking at particular instances of  
verses, never generalizing.

  
Dhananjay



