+++
title = "001 Dr. T. Mahendar"

+++
[[Dr. T. Mahendar	2013-02-26, 11:17:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/eXPGJVeyJWg)]]



another link-

<http://freepressjournal.in/why-sanskrit-remains-confined-among-intellectuals/>  
  

On Tue, Feb 26, 2013 at 11:03 AM, Dr T Mahendar \<[tpm...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> India to be pioneer in world through Sanskrit studies -CM Shri > Chouhan inaugurates Sanskrit Sahityotsav at Ujjain  
> Bhopal:Friday, February 22, 2013: Updated21:10 IST  
>   
> Chief Minister Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that Sanskrit is > the richest language in the world and the State Government will make > every possible effort to make it lingua franca. India will become > pioneer in the world through teaching and learning of Sanskrit.  
>   
> Shri Chauhan was inaugurating three-day Sanskrit Sahityotsav at > Ujjain’s Dussehra ground today. He said that when people in the > Western countries used to wear barks and leaves of trees, Vedas had > already been written in India. A number of great scriptures of > science, geography, culture and spiritualism had been written by that > time in India. Shri Chouhan said that people did not believe about the > invention of fire missiles mentioned in Mahabharat and Pushpak > aeroplane mentioned in the Ramayana. But now western scholars have > themselves admitted that these were invented in India thousands of > years ago. Shri Chouhan said that Sanskrit is the root of all the > languages in the world. Except Tamil, words of Sanskrit are found and > easily understood in all the languages of India. Shri Chouhan said > that Sanskrit language is a treasure-trove of knowledge. A number of > facts enshrined in Sanskrit scriptures are yet to be decoded. > Referring to “Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam” and “Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinan”, > Shri Chouhan said that wish of “welfare of all” has been made by only > India in the world. He said that Sanskrit language is the identity of > Indian culture. Indian culture cannot be appreciated without it.  
>   
> 12 thousand Sanskrit teachers to be appointed  
> Underlining importance of teaching and learning of Sanskrit at > Sanskrit Sahityotsav, Chief Minister Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan said > that the government will appoint 12 thousand Sanskrit teachers this > year. He hoped that this initiative will popularise teaching and > learning of Sanskrit epics.  
> Chief Minister Shri Chouhan stressed the need to investigate the > reasons as to why Sanskrit could not become lingua franca and remained > confined to scholars only. He urged Sanskrit scholars to assess the > reasons in depth. He said that scholars will have to find ways for > making Sanskrit language of common people. Referring to Panini > Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, Shri Chouhan said that the State Government > has made efforts for promoting Sanskrit teaching and learning. He said > that lack of knowledge of English affects talent of rural students. > The State Government is committed to change this scenario. He said > that education of engineering, medical and science etc will be > imparted through Hindi medium at Hindi Vishwavidyalaya.  
>   
> Presiding over the function, Public Relations and Culture Minister > Shri Laxmikant Sharma said that Sanskrit Sahityotsav is a unique event > of the world held at Ujjain. He said that a scheme for promotion of > Sanskrit will be chalked out under the guidance of famous scholars. > Shri Sharma lauded the serious efforts made by the Chief Minister to > restore glory of Sanskrit. He also described cow sanctuary in Shajapur > district as first of its own kind in the world. The Culture Minister > hoped that all will make dedicated efforts for conservation of Indian > culture and take India to the pinnacle of glory.  
>   
> CM learns Sanskrit lessons with students  
> Chief Minister Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan also visited Sanskrit Gram. > Here teacher Sushri Vanita was teaching first lesson of Sanskrit to > students. Chief Minister Shri Chouhan sat in the classroom with > students for some time. Earlier, the Chief Minister inspected science > exhibition where a number of photographs were displayed information > about knowledge given in Sanskrit language through Vedas, Upnishads > and songs about astronomy, physics, chemistry, aviation, architecture, > music, paintings, cosmetics, agriculture, medicine, ways for > artificial rain, computer etc.  
> Chief Minister Shri Chouhan inaugurated the event by lighting a lamp > amidst chanting of Vedic hymns. School Education Minister Smt. Archana > Chitnis, Food Minister Shri Paras Jain, Mayor Shri Rameshwar Akhand, > MLA Shri Shivnarayan Jagirdar, Tourism Development Corporation > Chairman Dr. Mohan Yadav, Haj Committee Chairman Shri Sanwar Patel and > former Union Minister Dr. Satyanarayan Jatia were also present on the > occasion. The welcome address was delivered by Panini Vishwavidyalaya > vice-chancellor Prof. Mithilaprasad Tripathi. Speaking on the > occasion, Utsav Chairman and vice-chancelloer of Rashtriya Sanskrit > Sansthan, New Delhi Prof. Radha Vallabh Tripathi and chancellor of > Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeeth, New Delhi Shri Mukundkam Sharma laid > emphasis on promotion and preservation of Sanskrit language. The Chief > Minister also released “Shabd Veda”. School Education Minister Smt. > Chitnis also read out a scripture.  
> link-  
> <http://www.mpinfo.org/mpinfonew/newsdetails.aspx?newsid=130222N24&flag1=1>



> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at > <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita?hl=en>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
>   
>   

  
  

  

--  

**Dr. T. Mahendar,**  
    **Asst. Professor,**

Mukta Swadhyaya Peetham,  
**Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan,**

(Deemed University Under MHRD, GOI)  
New Delhi.

