+++
title = "000 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2015-04-13, 20:29:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/RpiN-v8H9Iw)]]



Courtesy:<http://advaitham.blogspot.in/2010/03/deivathin-kural-200-vol-3-dated-20-mar.html>

  

In Sanskrit, there is a sloka in which by removing one letter, from where ever it occurs, what is a ‘ninda sloka’ (derogatory) becomes one that praises, that is a ‘stuti’! It is written by one Sri Rama Sastry of Chamaraja Nagar. It is the 18th sloka in ‘Sita - Ravana Samvada Jari’, printed by Kaasi Choukamba Press The first three lines are as being spoken by Ravana, addressing Sita, in which he is rather critical of Sri Rama! In reply, Sita tells Ravana, “kala! tam asakrun-maa sprusa giraa”, to mean, “You Menace! Do not repeatedly touch Him with your words”! When Ravana spoke derogatively thus about Sri Rama Chandra, it possibly sounded like desecrating Sri Rama with Ravana’s words soaked in his saliva! So she said, ‘kala’ = you mischief monger, ‘tam’ = Him; ‘gira’ = by words; ‘asakrun’ = repeatedly; ‘ma sprusa’ = do not touch! This is the apparent meaning. Now when we look at it in greater detail, it would mean, ‘do not touch Him repeatedly with those words starting with ‘ta’. Drop those ‘ta’ and you will see that you are actually praising Sri Rama! (Since in Sanskrit, there are four ‘ta, tha, da, dha’, here only the first letter ‘ta’ is referred.)  
  
41. What is that ‘Ninda ‘ sloka? What happens when we remove all the ‘ta’ kara swara-s? The original sloka runs like this:- “adalpam nidralu: rajanishu durgatatama: maha kadaryadya: manasi viduta:-projvalayasa: I vadaan maamsaadaanaam bahu vimada laabou janakaje katam slaagyo raama:....”, after this is the line, ’kala tam asakrun maa sprusa giraa II’, as what Sita told Ravana, as mentioned earlier.  
  
42. What Ravana said to Sita is as follows:- “Hi Janaka Putri!, He, your Rama does not even have a bed to sleep in. He does not know how to speak properly. He has gone too far down! He is too afraid. All his worth is gone. Having killed some Rakshasa-s he has attained many enemies! How can he be great?” ‘Rama:’ = Rama is; ’rajanishu adalpam’ = has no bed to sleep at night; ‘nidralu’ = sleepy; ‘kuwaak’ = speaks only bad words; ‘durgata tama:’ = gone too far down to the lowest; ‘manasi’ = in mind; ‘kadaryadya:’ = fearful; ‘viduta projvala yasa:’ = gone are the glories; ‘maamsaadaanaam vadaan’ = by killing carnivores Rakshasaa-s; ‘bahu vimada laabou’ = has obtained many enemies; (such a one); ‘katam slaagya:? = how could he be appreciated?  
  
43. Now as suggested by Sita, let us set aside the letters ‘ta’ where ever they occur and look at the meaning of the same sloka! ‘atalpam’ becomes ‘alpam’, so, ‘alpam nidraalu:’ means one who seldom sleeps; As it is as a King he is not supposed to sleep too much. Now that he has lost Sita, he hardly sleeps! ‘kuwak durgata tama:’, with the two ‘ta‘ letters that are underlined, dropped, ‘kuwaak durgama;’ and the meaning changes from ‘bad mouthed who has reached the lowest abyss‘, becomes, one who is unapproachable by crass words or thoughts; from fearful becomes man of high achievements, whose effulgence has become more bright by the killing of Rakshasaa-s; and so on. By removal of the letter ‘ta’ the sloka become one of praise for Sri Rama!  

