+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2012-12-11, 09:15:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/5Cjf_mvQcu8)]]



  
मित्राणि,

  

संस्कृतभारती- हलसूरु-विभागेन यथा गत वर्षे गीता जयन्ती आचरिता, तथा एव अस्मिन् वर्षे अपि समर्पणदिनरूपेण आचरिष्यते।

  

As it was conducted last year this year too Samskrita Bharati, Halasuru Vibhag will celebrate Gita Jayanti as Samarpana day. 

  

This year we will be privileged to have, Shri. Dr.Viswas (<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H._R._Vishwasa>) the great Samskrit scholar who has written many books and has been associated with Samskrita Bharati since its early years, as the key speaker.

  

Many of us in this group are students of Sambhashana Sibiram. He is one among those who formulated this course scientifically. His style of conducting Sambhashana Sibiram is the bench mark for the trainers. This may be the reason why he has aptly been given the responsibility of mentoring the teachers/volunteers of Samskrita Bharati as अखिलभारतप्रशिक्षणप्रमुख:, Chief Mentor.

  

He played a stupendous role in creating the books for Gita Shikshna Kendram - teaching Samskritam thru Gita and Gita thru Samskritam -the twin programme.

  

Above all he is a full time volunteer of Samskrita Bharati, who has given his life to promote this great language. I would say he is the mostappropriate person to tell us about both Gita and samarpanam.

  

Prof.Mahadevan of IIM Bangalore has agreed to preside over the function. Another great personality whose (http://www.iimb.ernet.in/\~mahadev/) interest in Samskritam and Gita is huge. A samskrit scholar whose research work on Management principles from Gita, has been well received among the students and the management gurus. Please visit the link provided to know more about him, for the fear of this mail being too long, I stop here. Otherwise I may have to write a separate mail to introduce him properly.  
  
The invitation for the function is attached with this mail.  
  

For the samskrit students, lovers, volunteers of Samskrita bharati, this is as important a function as how a family pooja is regarded.All of us assembling in one place and displaying our commitment to promotion of this great language, by learning, teaching, propagating, creating an environment to learn by others, is indeed an important ritual. 

  

I request each one of you personally thru this mail to be present on this Saturday 15 December 2012 at Parimala Sabhagana, off CMH Road, Indira Nagar at 3:30 pm, along with your family.  
  
जयतु संस्कृतम् । जयतु भारतम्।  
  
भवदीय:  
  
राजा राममूर्तिः  
  

  

  

  

  

