+++
title = "014 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2019-01-07, 14:52:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/d4MA1-iWFto)]]



नमस्ते रमणमूर्ति-महोदय !

I appreciate that you have started studying अष्टाध्यायी right from 1'1'1.

But may I submit that अष्टाध्यायीis not for "graded learning of Sanskrit" (the phrase, you picked up from my blog.)

In fact your saying that you had no problem proceeding up to 1'1'3. You encountered a problem at 1'1'4.

In my view you should have encountered a problem right at the first सूत्रम् - वृद्धिरादैच्. How would a first-time learner know that this splits up as वृद्धिः आत्-ऐच् ?

Rules of संधि / संहिता are detailed only in those सूत्र-s which follow the declaration of संहितायाम् as an अधिकारः.

Long and short of it is that अष्टाध्यायीis not for "graded learning of Sanskrit".

You have also mentioned that you are not convinced that Sanskrit cannot be learnt by teachers talk only in Sanskrit. You have likened this learning German from teachers who speak only German. For your kind information, in Max-Muller institutes, they teach German only that way. Also in AllianceFrançaise they teach French only in French. So people thinking of propagating Sanskrit by speaking in Sanskrit only, are not any odd lot. The contention seems to be that a child learns its mother tongue without having medium of any other language. My only observation is that the big element in child's learning a language is that it has the environment of the language 24x7. That is a big element. And for people wanting to learn a new language at an advanced age and with many other preoccupations, such environment will just not be available. I also have had first hand experience of learning Sanskrit by संभाषण-संस्कृतम् mode. I can only say that, it was appalling to me. People make mistakes and the mistakes get tolerated, because the teachers do not want to dampen the enthusiasm of the students.What gets finally promoted is erroneous Sanskrit. To my mind, since Sanskrit has zero tolerance for errors, what erroneous Sanskrit is learnt is not Sanskrit at all.

By that token, Gandhiji seems more right in saying that a (new) language be learnt in one's mother tongue. I do not know which is your mother tongue, maybe Telugu, because you mentioned of your visit to संस्कृत-भारती office in Hyderabad.

  

I styled my "Simple Sanskrit" lessons in English, because many people around the world would like that. And they have !

  

Your thought of wanting to apply computational linguisticsto study of Sanskrit is of course laudable. But this sounds to me somewhat ambitious, considering your present level of study ofअष्टाध्यायीin particular. I would not comment on your knowledge of Sanskrit. But I would say that "there are miles to go" in your study of अष्टाध्यायी. My level is also no better, since I am also struggling to get to the depths of सूत्र-sof अष्टाध्यायी.

  

Anyway, it does not become good feeling reading the criticism of your questions. But I think you also need to paraphrase your questions much better, so that they would not elicit those unpalatable criticism.





