+++
title = "012 vishal jaiswal"

+++
[[vishal jaiswal	2013-06-09, 12:52:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/iElGVsF7JVA)]]



What strikes me as strange is why learning Sanskrit "must" be linked to  
making money.  
But this is characteristic mentality of modern India, right ?  
"...and now wait in vain for the gains that were to follow. "  
  
----------  
New life, old death for Sanskrit in Uttarakhand  
Sanjay Singh Posted online: Sun Jun 09 2013, 01:15 hrs  
  
Bhantola, Bageshwar :  
  
What strikes you as you walk into Bhantola village in Uttarakhand’s  
Kumaon region are the Sanskrit slogans on its walls. The fronts of all  
houses bear ‘Sanskrit griham’, while a shop calls itself ‘apnnah’.  
Bathrooms are marked out as ‘snanagrah’.  
  
In January 2010, the then BJP government gave Sanskrit the status of  
second official language in Uttarakhand, the only state in the country  
to do so. Three-and-a-half years later, from state government offices to  
the jobs that would have sustained this dying language, little has  
changed on the ground. Two villages—Bhantola in Kumaon and Kimotha in  
Garhwal—were named ‘Sanskritgram’ with much fanfare. Here, people learnt  
to speak the language with much hope and now wait in vain for the gains  
that were to follow.  
  
“Yogen jayate muktih (Yoga ensures salvation)” declares a slogan on some  
walls, while “Sanskrit bhasha newa klishta na cha kathina (Sanskrit  
language is neither enigmatic nor tough)” says another in Bhantola.  
  
“We have done it on our own,” says pradhan Chandra Joshi. “We have not  
got any contribution from the state government for this wall campaign.”  
  
Joshi, who herself has a Masters (‘Acharya’ degree) in Sanskrit, says  
the state government has neither started the primary Sanskrit school nor  
the library it promised at the time of making Bhantola a Sanskritgram.  
  
Such was the initial enthusiasm that even women who had otherwise not  
received formal education beyond Class V enrolled to learn Sanskrit. “I  
had not touched a book after my marriage,” chuckles Haripriya (42), who  
has been married nearly 20 years. “I saw the enthusiasm among the women  
of my village to learn to speak Sanskrit and joined them.”  
  
One of the reasons Bhantola was picked to be a Sanskritgram was that its  
men belonging to the Brahmin caste have traditionally performed rituals  
such as solemnising weddings, namkarans (naming of infants) and tying of  
the sacred thread.  
  
Manoj Adhikari had been selected at the time as ‘Acharya’ to teach the  
villagers Sanskrit. Adhikari took his assignment seriously, regularly  
visiting even the Dalit basti of the village to teach its residents a  
language once considered a preserve of the upper castes. In Bhantola,  
there is a lot of respect for Adhkari’s work.  
  
However, it was after the completion of the first stage that the entire  
enterprise got stuck. Sources in the government said the Bhantola  
villagers who learnt Sanskrit were supposed to be appointed as teachers  
(Acharya) in other villages that were to be given the status of  
Sanskritgram. Since no other village was given that status after 2010,  
Bhantola’s new Sanskrit speakers had no avenues left. With the BJP  
government giving way to the Congress’s, there is no expectation of the  
project being revived.  
  
So far, precious money and resources have been spent on the scheme. The  
annual expenditure of the state government on Sanskrit is about Rs 21  
crore, including the salary of teachers in Sanskrit schools.  
  
There is a separate Sanskrit Education Department, 88 government-aided  
Sanskrit educational institutes, and 47 Sanskrit colleges giving  
‘Shastri (BA)’ and ‘Acharya (MA)’ degress. The government’s plan to open  
at least five primary schools in Sanskrit medium in every block is still  
to see the light of day.  
  
Besides, while the Sanskrit Shiksha Pariksha Parishad came into  
existence in April 2010, it is yet to start conducting examinations for  
the schools it controls. The board, in fact, functions from a rented  
house in Dehra Dun, without a regular director. Assistant Director  
Rashmi Badauni refused to comment on the state of Sanskrit education.  
  
Another reflection of the state government’s empty promises is the  
absence of Sanskrit nameplates bearing the names of the CM, ministers  
and bureaucrats in the corridors of power.  
  
Lalit Farshwan, the MLA from Kaptok of which Bhantola is a part, said he  
would communicate the grievances of Bhantola villagers to the state  
government. “They have become sentimental for Sanskrit,” he says.  
  
Manju Updhayay of Bhantola agrees. Like others in her village, she  
doesn’t regret learning the language. As she says, in jest, her only  
regret is that “Gaali nahi sikhenge hamare bachche (Our children will  
not know learn how to abuse).” However, as the government leaves it in  
limbo, Bhantola’s anger may find an outlet in other ways.  

