+++
title = "006 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-05-01, 18:38:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/ymWqFrDLC4c)]]



I am now going into a different topic by trying to answer a question raised by Sri Viswanath

B. Whether it is naalikera or naarikela.

  

I would request the patience of the audience to hear a long story.

  

I was borne in the country of coconuts called Kerala. It is thecountryof kera.

  

Being an etymologist by birth (not by qualification) I try to go to the why and when of some

words.

  

Phase 1.

  

In ancient days the Tamil speaking area of South India consisted of Cheram,

Cholam and Pandyam. According to legend Parasurama brought Namputhiris from

Karnataka and gave them land to settle. Bhargvah Konkanaasutah. They were from the

Konkan coast. They use the wordmana and illam meaning house used to imply their homes. Mana is a word in Kannadaand Illam a word in Tulu.

  

Many words in Tamil having the letter cha become ka. For example -

  

Tamil - chempu    Kannada - kempu

Tamil -chemmannu Kannada - kemmannu

Tamil -chevi       Kannada - kevi

Tamil -chelavu     Kannada - kelavu

  

In the same way cheram became keram.

  

How did coconut get the name keram?

  

Phase 2

  

There is a fruit called Peru supposed to have been brought to Goa by the Portugese from a place called Peru. In Goa they call this the fruit Peru. Even in Kerala this fruit is called Perakka. Outside Goa this is called Goa-ka (the fruit of Goa).

  

In the same way an importance fruit of Keram got its name as keram.

  

Phase 3.

  

Now a reverse identification started. The name of the place became Kera-la meaning

the place where as lot of Keram is grown. I want to indicate that in Sanskrit the suffix la

is added indicating an abundance. 

  

For example-

jati-la = having a lot of matted hair.

tundi-la = having an abundance of tundi or belly

for Vinayaka.

  

In fact this is a Sanskrit word. In Tamil it is called teng-kaay and in Malayalam it is called

thenga.

  

So the place where there are many coconut trees is called kerala.

  

Phase 4

  

How did the word Nadikera or Nalikera arise. 

That tree looks like a tube - nadi.

In Sanskrit there is no difference between nadi and nali.

For example the first mantra in Rigveda is -

  

agnimiide purohitam. It can also be

agnimiile purohitam.

  

Apte's dictionary says naadi and naali have the same meaning as a tube.

  

So Naadikeram became Naalikeram.  In Malayalam it is called Naalikeram.

  

Now the subject is open for more discussion.

  

  

  

  

  

  

  



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Viswanath B \<[vegav...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [sams...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Saturday, 30 April 2011 8:21 PM  
**Subject:** Re: \[Samskrita\] THREE TYPES OF POETRY  



