+++
title = "004 hnbhat"

+++
[[hnbhat	2011-01-09, 07:33:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/7IJ_lV0tY-I)]]





Dear Eddie,  
  
Thank you for your detailed reply and making clear your views about  
your views.  
  
Discrepancy is not with the interpretations within grammatical norms  
and not the difference with grammatical perspective and Yogic  
perspective (which is explained in this Yoga-sutra-s).  
  
You asked about Samasa on the one hand, and you were replied  
accordingly clearing your doubts with the linguistic analysis of  
Sanskrit Grammar for the compounds. In my replies I always mentioned  
this two concepts need not be confounded in my replies and the reason  
I didn't explain the other aspect I expected you already know the  
context where the words are actually used in Yoga-sutra and only  
replied on the grammatical analysis, leaving the other to be invented  
by you. The same thing holds good in the case of other commentators  
too, but only translating into English the Sutra- words into English  
equivalents (nearest) with the help of Grammar and Lexicons creates  
problems as I have seen in many translations I had collected.  
  
Yoga-sutra itself can be explained in terms of Yoga-sutra (and nothing  
else beyond it) in his own words. That is the other way. I had pointed  
out Avasthaa-lakshaNa pariNaama what you yourself have explained as I  
hoped you understood the difference of past, future and present in  
Grammar and Yoga philosophy (which is basically related with  
Buddhistic concepts of the same). Both concepts are different. And,  
  
I conclude by quoting a verse identifying the three Patanjali's known  
through literature as one and the same:  
  
योगेन चित्तस्य पदेन वाचां मलं शरीरस्य तु वैद्यकेन।  
यो ऽपाकरोत् तं प्रवरं मुनीनां पतञ्जलिं प्राञ्जलिरानतो ऽस्मि॥  
  
Thank you once more sharing your view and hope grand success in your  
endeavor of restoring ontological interpretation.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

