+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-04-16, 16:02:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/ebjVWe_lO1o)]]



Abhijnana Sakuntalam.  
  
There is a custom in Sanskrit literature that when a Drama or Natakam is  
written,  
it should be based on a known story. But the poet has the liberty to modify the

story converting it to a beautiful Drama or Natakam.  
  
The story of Sakuntala is mentioned in the Mahabharatha which is summarized  
below.

  
One day Dushyanta went hunting and reached the hermitage of Kanva.  
He came to know that Kanva had gone to take his bath in Somathirtha.  
He saw Sakuntala with her two friends. Seeing Sakuntala’s attractiveness  
he enquired about her story. She narrates the story of her birth.  
Vishwamitra was doing tapas. Indra was afraid that his position  
would be threatened. So he sent Menaka. She got a daughter  
by Vishwamitra. Menaka abandoned her and she was  
looked after by birds. So she was called Shakuntala – Shakuntaih  
laalitha – by the rishi Kanva who adopted her. Dushyanta  
married Sakunthala in Gaandharva style which is allowed among  
Kshatriyaas - Dusyanta being a Kshatriya and Sakunthala being the daughter  
of Visamitra a Kshatriya. Then Dushyantha left Sakunthala and returned to his  
palace.  
After some time Kanva appears in the scene. He approves the  
gandhrava type of marriage of Sakunthala. In due time,  
Shakuntala gives birth to Bharata. Kanva predicts that he  
would become an Emperor. He decides to send Shakuntala and her son  
to Dushyantha. When they reach Dushyantha’s palace, he at first refuses  
to accept her since he had forgotten everything about her. Then there was  
an asariiri (a voice from the heaven) that Shakuntala was his dutiful wife and  
Bharatha was his son. She is then accepted by him. Later Bharata becomes  
a King. Our country India is called Bharatham after him.  
  
But Kalidasa has modified this story with introducing a recognition  
(abhijnana) aspect. He introduced Durvasa into the story. When Durvasa  
goes toKanva’s hermitage he found that Sakuntala was in a pensive mood  
and does not notice him. Durvasa (noted for his anger) curses her that the  
person she was thinking about will not remember her. At this pont Sakuntala’s  
friends intervene and request Durvasa to pardon Sakuntala. Durvasa says that  
the curse cannot be taken back but says that if she shows an abhijnanam  
the king would remember her.  
  
This is from Abhijnana Sakuntalam –  
Durvasa said – Na me vachanamanyatha bhavitumarhathi. Kimtu  
abhijnaanaabharanadarshanena shaapo nivartishyate. And then  
he disappeared.  
  
But Sakuntala loses the ring in a river on way to the king’s palace.  
When Dushyanta does not recognize her, she was not  
in a position to show the ring. Thus she had to live away from the King.  
Now the lost ring was swallowed by a fish which was caught by a fisherman.  
The fisherman wanted to make a fortune and too it to the king. When the kind  
saw the ring he remembered Sakuntala and the connected episodes. They were  
later reunited along with their son Bharata.  
  
Kalidasa has introduced this aspect of abhijnana from Valmiki Ramayana.  
There are four instances of abhijnaana being used in Valmiki Ramayana.  
  
I am reproducing those verbatim.  
  
Ramayana - Kishkindha Kanda - Sarga 44 Sloka 12  
ददौ तस्मै ततः प्रीतः स्वनामांगोपशोभितम् /  
अंगुळीयमभिज्नानंराजपुत्र्या: परंतप: //  
Here Rama hands over the ring with his name  
to Hanuman as an identification to Sita.  
  
Sundara Kandam -Sarga 38 - Sloka 10  
यदि नोत्सहसे यातुं मया सार्थमनिंदिते /  
अभिज्नानंप्रयच्छ त्वं जानीयाद्राघवो हि यत् //  
After meeting Sita Hanuman offers to take  
her to Rama. When Sita declines the offer,  
he asks Sita to give him an identification  
to be given to Rama.  
  
Sundara Kanda –Sarga 38 –Sloka 12  
इदं श्रेष्ठमभिज्नानं ब्रूयास्त्वं तु मम प्रियम् /  
Tell Rama this identification which is  
an episode known only to Rama and Sita.  
That is story of the crow molesting sita.  
  
Sundara Kanda - Sarga 39 - Sloka 1  
मणिं दत्वा तत: सीता हनुमन्तमथाब्रवीत्/  
अभिज्नानमभिज्नातमेतद्रामस्य तत्वत: //  
  
( One is when Hanuman sees Sita, he gives her  
Rama’s ring or anguliyakam. This is to establish his identity  
that he is the real messenger of Rama. I am quoting from  
Valmiki Ramayana.  
  
vaanaroham mahaabhaago duuto raamasya dhiimatah.  
raamanaamaangitam chedam pashya devyanguliiyakam.  
  
pratyayaartham tavaaniitam tena dattam mahaatmanaa.  
  
I am the monkey and the messenger of Rama.  
This is the ring with Rama’s name given to me by  
Rama to you for identification.  
  
When Hanuman returns to Rama he has to confirm to him  
that he has seen the real Sita. For this Sita hands over to  
Hanuman her chudamani.  
  
esha chuudaamanirdivyo mayaa suparirakshitah.  
  
This is the chudamani which I have preserved well.  
  
In spite of receiving this identification, Hanuman asks  
Sita further abhijnanam. Sita tells him a story which  
is known only to Rama and Sita. This is an incident when  
a crow scraches Sita’s breast when Rama was sleeping on  
her lap. When Rama woke up he came to know what the  
crow had done. He sends a Brahmastra to kill the crow.  
The crow had to give up one of its eyes to save himself.  
  
May be some others could present this idea in a better  
manner.  
  
-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

