+++
title = "000 R. Śivarāmakṛṣṇa śarmā"

+++
[[R. Śivarāmakṛṣṇa śarmā	2013-05-11, 13:14:30 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/2qehZs2urOM)]]



Namaste,  
  

For starters, "recession" may not exactly be the correct word; however, I am aware that there exists considerable difference in readings in Manuscripts found in South India and those in North India, although I have not perused them personally.  
  

Some months back, I happened to see two editions of Sriman-Mahabharatam which explicity said - "Southern Recession". One was printed and published by Sri Ramaswami Sastrulu and Sons, Chennai and the other from Kumbhakonam although I can only remember one of the editors' name of the latter namely T.R. Vyasacharya.  
  

If anyone knows as to whether these books are available in Archive / DLI, I humbly request to enlighten me on the URLs so that I can download.  
  
I tried searching Archive.org but grossly most of the results point to the English translations penned during the British-Raj-era and other Sanskrit books are based on Sri-Ananda-Tirtha's commentary.  

  

Further, "**Nilakantha Caturdhara**" of **Bhavadipika** fame is of Marathi origin and was educated in Varanasi. I can only assume that the commentary he penned will be close to, if not based on the Northern recession. I am not fully aware as to when and where the fork between the two recessions took place. But given that Nilakantha Chaturdhara lived in Circa 17th century, it is not impossible that even during his time, there might have been considerable differences in the readings of the Northern and Southern manuscripts.  
  

Regards,  
R. Śivarāmakṛṣṇa Śarmā  
  
\|\| Tiruchitrambalam \|\|

