+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2011-07-30, 12:30:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/NXyYudwxXes)]]



<http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2011-06-19/india/29676755_1_sanskrit-language-child>  
  
India  
The Times of IndiaAdvanced Search 눯meCityIndiaWorldBusinessTechSportsEntertainmentLife & StyleWomenHot on the WebNRINew!Travel dealsPhotosTimes NowVideosLIVE TVYou are here:Home릮bsp;India4-year-old Sanskrit learner impresses manyPardeep Rai, TNN\|Jun 19, 2011, 02.58am IST  
AMBALA: At an age when most kids learn English nursery rhymes, Chinmay, 4, reads Sanskrit, recites Shalokas and even talks to his family members in Sanskrit. The boy is a kindergarten student.Chinmayis now popular in seminars and workshops organized to promote the Sansktrit language. "Though fluent in English, Sanskrit continues to be the boy's first language," claimed the boy's father Neeraj Shastri, teacher in a government school.  
  
"I studied the research papers of scholars who worked to promote languages such as Hindi and Sanskrit. The scholars stated that a child can learn five languages up to the age of six. I decided to test this theory on my child, and it worked," Shastri said. "I and my wife began conversing in Sanskrit and slowly the child learnt the language," he said.  
  
Chinmay has recently returned from Kaithal after attending a convention of Sanskrit scholar of the region. Scholars in Haryana are considering Chinmay as the firstSanskrit speaking childof the state. "We were searching for such a child," Haridev Sastri, a Sanskrit scholar of Kurukshetra said.  
Ravi  

  
  
--  
If God brings you to it, He will bring you through it.  
Happy moments, praise God.  
Difficult moments, seek God.  
Quiet moments, worship God.  
Painful moments, trust God.  
  
 Every moment, thank God  

