+++
title = "006 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2015-04-05, 15:58:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/CFPJnD11PCM)]]



Few more such incidents are listed here:

<http://knramesh.blogspot.in/2013/09/balakanda-of-valmiki-ramayana-in-english.html>  

  

1.Dasaratha did not intend to do Puthra Kameshti Yaga but did Aswa Medha Yagna for getting a son. Rishyasringa , who conducted the Yaga, later continued and did Puthra Kameshti, which he says occurs in Atharvana Veda.  
2. Ganga was the elder sister of Parvathi.  
4.Parvathi cursed that the world will become irregular and will not have the same master(several kings).  
5.Skanda got the name because he slided down from the womb of Ganga and he got six heads because he wanted to suckle the six Kathika maidens at the same time. He got the name Saravana as he was left in a forest of stick like plants.  
6.Ahalya willingly entered in to relation with Indra , in spite of knowing it is him and not her husband. She was not cursed to become a stone but was made invisible and do penance without food or sleep and got Moksha, when she saw Rama entered her hermitage .Indra , by the curse lost his testicles and the Pithrudevathas cut the testicles of Rama and attached it to him.  
7.Lakshmana's wife Urmila was the daughter of Janaka  
8.None of the women folk of both families seem to have attended , the wedding ceremony of Rama with Sita.  

  

In Ayodhya kanda:

**<http://knramesh.blogspot.in/2013/11/english-translation-of-ayodhya-kanda-of.html>**  

  

1.Dasarathahas some doubt regarding likely problemfor the coronation either by Kaikeyi/ Bharatha

2.Dasaratha had altogether 350 wives

3\. Most probablyKaikeyiwas very young comparedto his other wives.

4.Kakeyi hada large number of hunchbacks with herfor purpose of entertainment.

5\. Charioteers were important people in the kingdom. At least two of them are mentioned as ministers of Dasaratha.

6\. The saint killed in the forest by using Sabdha Bhedi arrowby Dasarathawas the son of Vaisya father (saint) and a Shudra mother.

7.Lakshmana usedto get very angry quickly.

8.Some of the answers of Sita werevery curt.

9.Lakshmanadid not takeleave from his wife.

10.In factthere is no mention in this part of Ramayanaaboutthe wives of Lakshmana, Bharatha and Shatrugna.

11.Rama does a Vasthu Bali before occupying his hermitage in Chithrakuta.

12.He offers Pinda with a fruit pulp and a fruit juice to his departed father.

13.The cloth which lady saints wearwoven with grass is called "Cheera", which is same word used in Malayalam for Sari.

14.Jabali , who was a ministerof Dasaratha was a great Brahmin as well great atheist.,

  

  



