+++
title = "000 vishal jaiswal"

+++
[[vishal jaiswal	2012-09-09, 08:24:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/tZK2UTcww0A)]]



Publication: The Times Of India Mumbai; Date: Sep 9, 2012;  
Section: All That Matters; Page: 20  
  
MEN & MORALS  
  
The loss of inheritance  
  
India may become the only major culture whose literary patrimony is in  
the hands of scholars abroad  
  
GURCHARAN DAS  
  
The approach of another festival season raises the old question of the  
place of myth and classical culture in our contemporary lives. This is  
not an idle question—it forces one to confront the difficult problem of  
what it means to be fully and richly human. For millions of young  
Indians who have risen in recent years and are now part of the confused,  
upwardly mobile, post-reform internet generation, the question has a new  
urgency. With a degree of prosperity has come the luxury of being able  
to face up to one’s inheritance, even though the answer might be  
frightening.  
  
Akhilesh Yadav, the young chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, is  
typical of this generation. Unlike his father, Akhilesh finds no votes  
in the old bashing of English and “angrezi hatao andolans” especially  
when English medium schools are flourishing in the poorest Muslim  
mohallas of UP. Yes, young Indians are more relaxed about the place of  
English in their lives, and gone is the earlier anxiety over  
“Indian-ness” or the belief that one has to read and write in one’s  
mother bhasha to be authentically Indian. Moreover, no one could have  
imagined the intellectual ferment that would come with the flowering of  
Indian writing in English. Yet, despite the new cosmopolitanism,  
Akhilesh and his generation cannot conceive of exchanging it for a  
riotous celebration of Dussehra, Diwali, and Ramzan, even though the  
significance of the festivals has receded from their consciousness.  
  
What will shock Akhilesh Yadav and his friends in the political  
class is the sobering truth that an Indian who seriously wants to study  
the classics of Sanskrit or ancient regional languages will have to go  
abroad. “If Indian education and scholarship continue along their  
current trajectory,” writes Sheldon Pollock, the brilliant professor of  
Sanskrit at Columbia University, “the number of citizens capable of  
reading and understanding the texts and documents of the classical era  
will very soon approach a statistical zero. India is about to become the  
only major world culture whose literary patrimony, and indeed history,  
are in the hands of scholars outside the country.”  
  
This is extraordinary in a country with dozens of Sanskrit  
departments in all major Indian universities, along with network of  
maths, pathshalas, and vidyapeeths. The ugly truth is that the quality  
of teaching in these institutions is so poor that not a single graduate  
is able to think seriously about the past and critically examine ancient  
texts. They are parrots who can only repeat words without converting  
them into true knowledge. Politically motivated appointments have also  
ruined the few centres of excellence that once existed at Pune  
University, Deccan College, and the Banaras Hindu University. Fifty  
years ago, India had great scholars like P V Kane, V S Sukhthankar, S N  
Dasgupta, S Radhakrishnan and many more. The tradition of pandit  
learning is also disappearing. Where is India’s soft power when there  
are fewer and fewer Indians capable of interrogating the texts of  
Kalidasa or the edicts of Ashoka?  
  
The gift of economic growth is that for the first time parents are  
beginning to be freed from earlier middle class insecurities and their  
children are beginning to take risks in the pursuit of unusual careers.  
One of these is driven by a natural curiosity about one’s past. The  
proud discipline of making sense of ancient texts is called philology  
which is practically dead in India. But as academic salaries have  
improved in recent years, it is increasingly possible once again to make  
a scholarly career. No one, however, will be able to study in India  
unless our institutions improve. Akhilesh Yadav and leaders in other  
states have in their power to stop the rot and reform our third rate  
institutions so that young Indians can one day help to recover our  
historical memory.  
  
To be worthy of being Indian does not mean to stop speaking in  
English. It means to be able to have an organic connection with our many  
rich linguistic pasts. To be truly ‘whole’ is to realize that mythical  
themes are universal and portray eternal truths of mankind, and can help  
us to cope with life at different stages. What separates man from beast  
is memory and if we lose historical memory then we surrender it to those  
who those who will abuse it.  

