+++
title = "016 धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>"

+++
[[धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>	2012-01-16, 21:15:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/oGGB0uLn3uQ)]]



\> But I don’t understand why it’s there. Is it perhaps simply for euphony, ease of pronunciation?  

It is very likely that the introduction of -s- is for euphony,  
possibly a (an?) euphonic idiosyncrasy from an absorbed dialect. The  
description by pANini is in a context where many different euphonic  
changes are mentioned. In case of euphonic idiosyncrasies remnant from  
defunct dialects, or newly introduced from a dialect group that is  
just becoming respectable, the "standard" usages are riddled with  
confusing rules and exceptions. The introduction of the "-s-" here or  
the the "ruki" euphonic cerebralization\* both show this large number  
of exceptions.  
  
(\*I understand that Sanskritists of the Western tradition use the  
term "ruki" rule for the transformations described under pANini's  
section heading "apadAntasya mUrdhanyaH 8.3.55"="cerebralize except if  
end-of-word".)  
  
An interesting feature is SOMETIMES found in the euphonic  
idiosyncrasies of mixing dialects. Both "euphonic" forms coexist with  
differing meanings or contextualizations. This is probably semantic  
baggage carried over from the mixing dialects. The example of the  
different meanings of sam+kR and sam-s-kR have been discussed above.  
In the past on this email list, we have discussed the different  
meanings of "rAmAyaNa" (a proper name, the name of some specific story  
of rAma) and "rAmAyana" (the path of rAma - any path, not the name of  
a specific path). The n-to-N transformation is clearly euphonic, but  
this euphonic transformation brings with it the semantic baggage.  
  
Dhananjay  
  
On Jan 15, 7:41am, "Eddie Hadley" \<[EddieHad...@Ontology.demon.co.uk]()\>  
wrote:  



