+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2018-01-19, 23:17:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/pnmyNR9PXtk)]]



  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **International Conference** \<[nfsi...@cvv.ac.in]()\>  
Date: 19 January 2018 at 12:58  
Subject: 2nd International Conference (Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth) - NFSI 2018  
To:  
  
  

ChinmayaVishwavidyapeeth’sannualInternational Conference - NFSI 2018 (New Frontiers in Sanskrit and Indic Knowledge) is to be heldDecember 13-15, 2018at the Chinmaya Eswar Gurukula, Kochi campus.  

The Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth invites scholars, students, professionals, and anyone interested in research on the relation and interaction between traditional and contemporary disciplines in India; for a three-day event featuring paper presentations and panels, lectures and addresses, as well as artistic presentations.

----------------------------------------------------  

**THEME :**

The central theme of the conference is-

  

**प्रत्नानि नूत्नानि च शास्त्राणि-अर्थसार्थवाहाः संवादाः**

**Śāstra and Discipline – Towards a meaningful dialogue.**

  

Thebroad aim of the conference is to foster collaboration and develop research projects that will engage with the issues of studying classical knowledge forms in light of their more recent counterparts.Bytaking*śāstra*in the widest possible senseas meaning knowledge-discipline, we aim to understand the formationand developmentof disciplinary traditions in all possible realms. Further, we hope to take stock of the current state of the art regarding individual śāstra-s; and to discuss possibilities to update methods of studying, teaching and archiving them.Further, we are keen to bring together scholars with interested non-specialists to strengthen the understanding, interest, and support towards the traditional bodies of learning.The conference will also host workshops to aid young researchers in improving their skills.

  

For an indicative list of topicsand important dates, seethe attachedflyer.More details are available on our website - [NFSI2018](http://nfsi921724086.wordpress.com)  

  
----------------------------------------------------  

**TO PARTICIPATE:**

**PROPOSING ATHEMATIC SESSION:**

We encourage scholars to propose thematic sessions, on topics that fit within the frame of the conference. It will be the responsibility of the proposer to garner at least five speakers willing to present papers in the proposed theme. We encourage thematic sessions that have speakers from diverse disciplines, affiliations, and backgrounds. To propose such a session, the proposer will have to write out a theme proposal (c.300 words), which the organising committee will review and approve. The individual papersproposedunder an approved theme will have to go through the usual process of review for acceptance.

----------------------------------------------------

**INDIVIDUALABSTRACTS:**

Please sendinabstracts of c. 300 words(no longer than one A4 page), with aseparate document giving abrief biography of c. 150 words, to:**by31st July 2018.Please indicate which theme the abstract is submitted under. Abstracts may be either in English or Sanskrit. The abstract must clearly indicate the objective of the study, the kind of investigation and the results or findings.

All selected participants will be asked tosubmittheir papers internally by30th September,which will becirculated among participants of the relevant session, so that they canfamiliarise themselves with co-participants’ work prior to theconference.

----------------------------------------------------  

Docirculatethe announcementamong your colleagues and students. Kindly put up the attached flyer on your display board.Please followour website for more updates.

**  
**

**C****ONTACT INFORMATION:**

Please direct your queries to \<[nf...@cvv.ac.in]()\>

  

**Disclaimer:**

The information contained in e-mail messages sent using domains of Chinmaya University and/or its constituent institutes, is confidential and may also be privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, you should delete it and notify the sender immediately. You should not copy or use it for any purpose, nor disclose its contents to any other person. Views and opinions expressed are those of the sender. Please note that while all e-mails are scanned for viruses, no guarantee can be provided that any e-mail is virus-free, and no liability shall be accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by any e-mail. Please be aware that the entire content of any e-mail, and replies to it, may be monitored by Chinmaya University for quality assurance, policy compliance and/or security reasons. Visit [www.chinmayauniversity.ac.in](http://www.chinmayauniversity.ac.in) for more information about the University.

  

