+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2016-11-14, 19:26:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/dEIgCX-MsVg)]]



  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **International Conference** \<[nfsi...@chinmayauniversity.ac.in]()\>  
Date: 11 November 2016 at 10:12  
Subject: Conference Announcement - NFSI2017  
To:  
  
  

Dear Sir/Madam

  

Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth invites you to a 3-day International Conference on "*New Frontiers in Sanskrit and Indic Knowledge: Emerging Issues for Teaching Research and Applications"*fromJune 12-14, 2017at its Chinmaya Eswar Gurukula, Kochi Campus.  
  
This conference, designed to address the issues and create a new agenda for the professionals and researchers in the field of Sanskrit and Ancient Indian Wisdom, will provide a platform for thought leaders, academic community and researchers to share new knowledge, best practices and gain from mutual interactions. The conference will also provide networking opportunities for those engaged in teaching and research in Sanskrit, Indic Knowledge and its Applications.  
  
Please circulate it among yourcontacts(i.e.faculty, researchers and students). Please find attached flyer with this mail which you may post on your notice board.

  

We are available for any queries or doubts you may have. Contact us on[nfsi2017@chinmayauniversity.ac.in]()or call us at[+91-7558-896-000](tel:+91%2075588%2096000).  
  
You may click[here](https://goo.gl/gbXwHt)or on the poster to visit the website.  
  

We look forward to your support and thank you for your time.  
  

  

  

**With Best Regards**

**  
**

**Prof. Shrinivasa Varakhedi(Chair)**

**Program committee**  



CHINMAYA VISHWAVIDYAPEETH

University for Sanskrit and Indic traditions

Chinmaya Eswar Gurukul

Adi Sankara Nilayam

Veliyanad, Ernakulam - 682313

Kerala, India

  

**Disclaimer:**

The information contained in e-mail messages sent using domains of Chinmaya University and/or its constituent institutes, is confidential and may also be privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, you should delete it and notify the sender immediately. You should not copy or use it for any purpose, nor disclose its contents to any other person. Views and opinions expressed are those of the sender. Please note that while all e-mails are scanned for viruses, no guarantee can be provided that any e-mail is virus-free, and no liability shall be accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by any e-mail. Please be aware that the entire content of any e-mail, and replies to it, may be monitored by Chinmaya University for quality assurance, policy compliance and/or security reasons. Visit [www.chinmayauniversity.ac.in](http://www.chinmayauniversity.ac.in) for more information about the University.

  

