+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2017-03-06, 19:09:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/l67Pp2QKRnQ)]]



  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Summerschool CIF-CU** \<[summer...@chinfo.org]()\>  
Date: 3 March 2017 at 18:08  
Subject: Vyasa Valmiki Kalidasa - Summer School 2017  
To:  
  
  

  

Respected Sir/ Madam,

Greetings from Chinmaya International Foundation (CIF).

  

[Chinmaya International Foundation](http://www.chinfo.org/),in partnership with[Chinmaya University](http://chinmayauniversity.ac.in/), is organizing the 4^(th)Residential[SummerSchoolProgram](http://summerschool2017.chinfo.org/).This year's Summer School provides a platform for an exploration for all those with a thirst to get**a holistic view of Indian civilization and culture**. The programme might be of interest to you.

  

The theme of Summer School -**Vyāsa -Vālmīki -Kālidāsa**:****Realizing the Spirit of Indian Culture through their Creations

Dates and Venue:17^(th)to the 26^(th)of June, 2017 at**Chinmaya International Foundation, Kerala**

The programme is directed by**Shatāvadhāni Dr. R. Ganesh**, a renowned poet and scholar,accompanied by other stalwarts in the field of dance, music, puppetry, philosophy etc.  

  

***Uniqueness of the program:*******

This topic on the foundations laid byVālmīki, Vyāsa, and Kālidāsa on Indian cultureis unique and**valued by academics in Indian Samskriti**(Civilisation and Culture)******as much aspracticing artists**.

One finds many great maestros at Art Festivals but this program looks at the source inspiration and continuing influence onthe pan-Indian culture and beyond.

A study of these masters through literature, philosophy, and the various artforms gives us both**a macroscopic and microscopic view of the cultural****ethos of India**. The workshop allows for**close interaction with artists****and scholars**. The participants with theirvaried backgrounds, age groups and nationalities will add to therichness of the experience.

The link to our website is:[summerschool2017.chinfo.org](http://summerschool2017.chinfo.org/)

Attaching the brochure too for your reference.

It would be of great help if you could also share the information regarding the Summer School withyour department, alsolike-mindedcolleagues and friends and spread the word byputting up the brochure on the notice board of your esteemed institution/ department.

Thank you very much!

  

Warm Regards,

Summer School Team

Programme Executive - Arundhati Sundar: +91 9061-972220  

Academic Coordinator - Arjun Bharadwaj: +91 9845-101718

Project Coordinators  

Revathi Nair: +91 [920-7711148](tel:(920)%20771-1148)  

Manisha Makhecha: +91 9995-113322  

  

--

  

  

