+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2014-04-16, 15:00:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/O_XJjXd5uWc)]]



Courtesy: Sri.Kuppuswamy Sanckar

  

In the Sri Rudram Chamakam every word ends with “Cha Me” (grant me) it is literally asking for the fulfillment of wishes and in the Agnihotra Mantra we have “Idam Na Mama” (This is not mine) it is chanted when offering. In Sri Rudram a seeker make a polite wish to the Lord and while making an offering to the Lord in the Agnihotra Mantra the seeker says that whatever he has to offer Him is not his.  
  
If the asking is small the offering has to be huge, even nature does the same; for instance this earth wants a small seed in the same as lines as “Cha Me” but when it is time for it to give back the yield it says “Idam Na Mama” and offers everything it has without being selfish. “Cha Me” is common factor, as everybody wants but only few give back that which is got that too in multifold.  
  
Why should one offer with the thought of “Idam Na Mama”?  
  
This very thought of “this is not mine” will stop one from getting involved in the stress and strain that is engrossed in it. Here is a story which can throw light on how the feel of “Idam Na Mama” can lessen the burden on a persons mind.  
  
There was a King who looked after his subjects very well and there was no problem what so ever in his land. As time passed trivial problem started pouring in every day and the King had to resolve them. He was getting old and felt his son was too young to find solutions to those problems. This thought was posing trouble; he was tense and lost sleep. He always thought what would happen after him. In search of a solution to this problem he went to his Kulguru and said, “I am getting weaker day by day and am unable to rule the kingdom, my son is just a kid to take over what should I do, Gurudev.”  
  
Kulguru said, “If you are unable to find person who can rule the land, then I suggest you to hand over the kingdom to me, I will handle it.”  
  
King was very much pleased he said, “By all means I am ready.”  
  
At that very instant taking the water from the kamandalu, the King poured the water from his hand to the hands of the Kulguru symbolizing the exchange of the power.  
  
King stood up to leave. “Where are you going?” asked Kulguru.  
  
“I will go far away from this kingdom and live a life of a commoner.” said the King.  
  
“What are you going to do for a living?” Kulguru asked.  
  
“I am ready to accept any job that come my way.” said the King.  
  
Kulguru told, “If you are ready to do any job, come and work for me. I have a huge kingdom and I cannot run it, I need a person who has a good experience and I find you very suitable for the job.”  
  
King said, “Oh Yes! I am for it, I accept the job.”  
  
Kulguru said, “Good, start you work from this moment rule the kingdom on my behalf. Do not forget that nothing is yours and you are on payroll.”  
  
King accepted the job and started ruling the kingdom on behalf of his Kulguru. After some months Kulguru came to the palace and asked the King, “How are you now? Do you still have tensions? How is your life going on?”  
  
Gleefully the King replied, “Very happy Gurudev, I resolve the problem the whole day and have a peaceful sleep at. Nothing is mine. I only do my duty.”  
  
Simply consider Him as the sole proprietor by saying “Idam Na Mama” and do your work all the tension will just vanish………!  

