+++
title = "003 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-06-11, 09:53:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Z1sN7qiviXM)]]



Dear PKR,  
  
I sympathise with you.  
  
There was a time, several decades ago, when the names given to boys  
and girls in Marathi (educated) families, as in similar families  
everywhere, were straight from the Indian mythology, puraNas,  
Mahabharata, Bhagavata etc., like Shankar, VishNu, Raama, LakShmaNa,  
Siitaa, Gangaa, Yamunaa, LakShmI etc. Around the 3rd or the 4th  
decade of the 20th century, more poetic names made their appearance,  
(I presume) under the influence of the Bengali literature of  
Sharatchandra, Ravindranath etc. Three of my uncles born in the  
1920’s and 1930’s had names like Chittaranjan, Chaitanya and  
Chandrashekhar. I myself have a name that you would not find anywhere  
prior to the early 20th century.  
  
These names like Dilip, Anand, Santosh, Prafulla ruled the field for a  
few decades but have already become old-fashioned. The younger  
parents are on the lookout for more unusual names and are delving  
deeper into old literature for names. This has brought forth names  
like Arya, Ved, Jai/Jay, Anvay, Anuja, Shantanu etc.  
  
This trend sometimes teaches something new to us. A nephew of mine  
named his daughter ‘Sanika’. Initially, I was a bit wary of it.  
Consulting MW, I found that it is actually a good name, meaning ‘a  
flute or bansuri’.  
  
If you do not know (or care) for the meaning behind the name, and are  
only looking for a sweet-sounding and vaguely Sanskrit name, this can  
lead to hilarious or absurd results. I have come across the name  
‘Swapnil’. Today’s sweet boy ‘Swapnil’ will, one day, become a  
grandfather. How will ‘Swapnil grandpa’ sound then? ‘Vrishali’ is a  
common girl’s name today. In MudrarakShasa, Chanakya insists on  
calling Chandragupta as ‘Vrishala’, i.e. a dasIputra. So, for those  
who know, Vrishala/Vrishali is not complimentary names at all. But  
who cares or knows? A nephew of mine is called ‘Ahan’, meaning the  
day! Another girl, an emerging singer, is called Saneyee, whatever it  
means! It sounds ethnic and the parents are happy that they have  
found an unusual but Indian name for their child.  
  
This is something that should be applauded as well as decried. It is  
good that we are re-discovering and re-establishing our roots in the  
past and validating the old culture. At the same time, its  
superficiality makes one cringe.  
  
But take heart. Aarush is not all that vacuous. AarushI, according  
to MW, is a daughter of Manu and mother of Aurva.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, June 11, 2011.

