+++
title = "000 sri venkat"

+++
[[sri venkat	2014-01-31, 18:24:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/4lJxpOetB8c)]]



This discussion was about Balu's TheHeathenInHisBlindness. But the  
author has a lot of interesting things to add.  
  
----------------------------------------  
On 1/31/14, [ashay...@gmail.com]() \<[ashay...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
  
From Umang's post I gather that this topic is about books which speak  
intelligibly about Indian traditions and culture.  
  
  
\[1\] To begin with, Balu's two books HIHB and Reconceptualizing India  
Studies, and his many essays are truly illuminating. HIHB cured me of  
my disillusionment towards Indian thought and taught me to approach it  
sympathetically. The book explains the Christian theological  
underpinnings of the so-called modern social sciences and shows that  
modern social scientists have been merely reproducing Christian  
assumptions of Indian thought in a secular language. RIS deals with  
the Saidian legacy of Orientalism. It proposes that the West  
understood the Indian as an inferior variant of its own self. This was  
not simply the outcome of colonization but because the West is a  
religious culture. Hence, the problem of Orientalism persists even  
after political and economic colonization has disappeared. The result  
of colonization, however, was that Indians too have begun to perceive  
themselves the same way as the West perceives them. Overall, I  
understood that the main difference between Indian and Western  
cultures is that one is primarily ritualistic and the other primarily  
idealogical.  
  
  
The most important insight for me, however, was in relation to the  
view that it is held reasonable for Indians to abandon their 'flawed'  
traditions since the West has done the same. The West too, having  
reflected critically on their own traditions, have allegedly put them  
in the past and embraced the enlightened values of modernity. So  
Indians should not have a problem doing the same. However, Balu's  
works show that far from abandoning their religion, the West has only  
abstracted away its core principles and repackaged them in a modern  
form. This becomes evident from the fact that the substance of Western  
understanding of India has stayed the same even if the West has itself  
moved from religion, to modernity, to post-modernity. I thus realized  
that any future the Indians want to build for themselves must also  
evolve from their own traditions and not by pursuing the grand  
narrative of the West. However, this is easier said than done on  
account of two facts: first, we are the products of a colonial  
education, and second, we live in a globalized milieu dominated by  
Western thought. How then do we undo our colonized thinking and  
recover our mojo, so to speak? Therein lies the real challenge.  
  
  
I think Balu is amongst our finest thinkers who have correctly  
diagnosed our problem. But I fail to follow the solution he proposes -  
a comparative science of cultures, different configurations of  
learning, etc. I also find his writing over-intellectual at times.  
Having said that, I think they are mandatory reading for contemporary  
Indians. Given our mentally colonized situation, we cannot truly begin  
to appreciate our tradition without it.  
  
  
\[2\] I also find the writings of the so-called neo-Gandhians Ashis  
Nandy, T. N. Madan, Madhu Kishwar, etc. useful. Madan's book 'Modern  
myths, locked minds : secularism and fundamentalism in India' helps  
understand the Protestant ideological basis of secularism and the  
difficulties it faces when confronted with Hindu traditions. The  
anti-secularist essays of Madan and Nandy in Rajeev Bhargava's  
'Secularism and its critics' are worth reading. Nandy, in my view,  
follows the Protestant distinction between 'religion as faith' and  
'religion as ideology' in this case, but it only shows how much the  
West has intellectually influenced us through our colonial education.  
What I do like about Nandy's ideas is his questioning of modernity's  
utopias and of its insistence on specific forms of dissent. This, of  
course, takes us into the subaltern studies genre which shows how  
oppression is challenged in traditional societies using myths and so  
on, which are not acceptable to modern people.  
  
  
Debjani Ganguly's 'Caste, colonialism and counter-modernity : notes  
on a postcolonial hermeneutics of caste' is a good book to understand  
how Dalit mythographies challenge the hegemonic discourse while  
located within it as opposed to modernists who advocate more radical  
and violent means. I haven't read much of Kishwar but I appreciate her  
defence of the Khap panchayat's angst towards sagotra marriage by  
relating it to a differential understanding of incest in different  
communities. Her Modinama is also an excellent piece of journalism  
which challenges with data the media propaganda against Modi (though  
that is off the topic here). Ronald Inden's 'Imagining India' explains  
the Orientalist study of India, Nicholas Dirks' 'Castes of Mind' deals  
specifically with the institutionalization of caste in colonial India  
and its effects, Sharada Sugirtharajah's 'Imagining Hinduism : A  
Postcolonial Perspective' describes the particular cases of William  
Jones, Max Mueller, William Ward and Farquhar. Also look for the  
critiques written by Balu of the inadequacy of their writings  
(<http://www.hipkapi.com/category/balagangadhara/> and  
<http://www.cultuurwetenschap.be/publications/search/section:0/author:1/show:all>).  
  
  
\[3\] I am sorely disappointed, however, that not one notable modern  
Indian scholar, Balu included, appears to have attempted to read the  
ancient Indian texts in the original and let that inform their views  
on Indian tradition. Most of these scholars I think rely on English  
translations and secondary readings of the ancient Indian texts, all  
of which I find totally unreliable. They are extremely useful as an  
aid when you are reading the Sanskrit text but utterly inadequate in  
themselves. Actually, I hit upon the aforementioned works quite by  
chance when I was doing a diploma in Sanskrit last two years. In my  
view, anyone interested in studying Indian traditions must read the  
traditional Indian commentaries on the classics to gain an  
understanding of how these works were interpreted in the past.  
Sankara's Bhagavad Gita Bhasya, for example, is radically different  
from anything written on the Bhagavad Gita in the last two centuries -  
the latter appears to be inspired by Western thought while the former  
appears to address concerns which are uniquely Indian such as, for  
example, how can one explain the experience of samsara - the  
alternation of happiness and sorrow - if the atman is in reality  
isvara/brahman?  
  
  
I am currently reading Medhatithi's commentary on the Manava  
Dharmasastra which is absolutely fantastic in that it shows how  
ancient Indians understood their world, the diversity of views they  
maintained regarding it, how they made sense of the 'received' texts,  
and so on. A translation by Ganganath Jha is available at [archive.org](http://archive.org).  
The MDh is itself quintessential reading in order to understand BhG as  
these texts arose in the same milieu. But Western readings of the MDh  
such as by Wendy Doniger are totally gross. You need to go through  
some traditional commentator such as Medhatithi. That reminds me,  
Werner Menski's 'Hindu law : beyond tradition and modernity' takes a  
post-modern approach to Hindu law and elaborates on the modern  
misunderstandings on the subject.  
  
  
It is quite tragic that our modern scholars overlook the  
Dharmasastras and keep a wary distance from them while upholding the  
Vedanta and Yoga texts. The latter have been understood within the  
Indian tradition as moksa or nivritti texts and as complementing (not  
overriding) the dharma or pravritti texts. Without properly  
understanding the latter, the former cannot be understood. Until we  
understand how the ancient Indians made sense of acting in the world,  
we cannot understand how (and why) they conceived getting out of it.  
That Indian scholars are now interested only in Vedanta and Yoga texts  
and in showing how they explain acting in the world, is an outcome, in  
my view, of Western influence.  
  
  
Finally, I would recommend the Pancatantra, a magnificent gem of a  
text - the Sanskrit text naturally, not the Amar Chitra Katha version  
:) There are three editions: Hertel's based on Purnabhadra's edition,  
Keilhorn's based on the vulgate edition and Edgerton's based on a  
southern recension. Chandra Rajan, M R Kale, and Patrick Olivelle have  
produced translations respectively (Kale has translated only the  
verses). Read the Pancatantra along with texts on ancient Indian  
polity such as Bhandarkar's 'Lectures On The Ancient History of India'  
to understand how it has allegorized the politics of monarchy and  
gana-samgha in its animal stories.  
  
  
Painful as it may sound, we should not shy away from Western  
interpretations of Indian tradition. They are gross and misleading but  
also useful inasmuch as they teach us insightful ways of understanding  
our ancient texts. For example, McComas Taylor and Patrick Olivelle  
have written atrocious stuff on the Pancatantra, interpreting its  
stories as instituting and perpetuating a casteist and deceitful  
society. They left me fuming at first but they forced me to question  
that if the Pancatantra stories are not about caste and deceit, then  
what are they about? I took my cue from their reference to the  
Pancatantra as a nitishastra and consulted other texts on niti and  
dharma, as well as those of Marxist writers such as Romila Thapar and  
R S Sharma, to disprove the thesis of Taylor and Olivelle and  
demonstrate that some of the stories illustrate the political  
conditions and thought existing in ancient India. I did this as part  
of my Honors thesis which was happily approved by both my Western  
guides. I must admit that I developed a much better understanding of  
the Pancatantra while contesting the interpretations of Olivelle and  
Taylor. Thus there is much to learn from the mistakes of others. So  
lets not reject Western and Marxist readings of Indian tradition - let  
us critique them constructively and while doing so we can get deep  
insights into the Indian tradition. To that end, I would even suggest  
Meera Nanda's 'Prophets Facing Backward'. I don't agree with her ideas  
but they nicely explain the current left-liberal thinking wrt the  
alleged idealogical alliance between Hindu nationalist and  
post-colonialist thinkers. These are the three main contestants in the  
intellectual arena today and it is funny how each of them thinks that  
the other two are abettors of each other.  
  
  
\[4\] Finally, I find the works of Rajiv Malhotra and Devadutt  
Pattanaik quite shallow. 'Invading the Sacred' and 'Breaking India'  
have commendably indicated the problems that plague scholarship on  
India and its traditions, but they neither investigate the underlying  
causes nor propose an alternative. Why do Western scholars write the  
way they do about Ganesha or Ramakrishna or whatever else? And if  
their approach is wrong then what is the right one? For example, if it  
is erroneous as Courtright suggests that Ganesha's trunk represents a  
limp phallus then what does the elephant head suggest or is this  
approach of studying Ganesha fundamentally wrong and there is a better  
way? Rajiv's books simply paint the Western scholars as villains whose  
sole aim is to destroy Indian traditions when that is certainly not  
the case. We need to understand these works on the background of the  
modern history of studying religion in the West, the dichotomy between  
those who seek 'sympathy of religions' and those who harbour  
'suspicion of religions'. 'Being Different' was a sore disappointment  
comparing apples and oranges between Indian and Western thought such  
as the Christian Biblical tradition and Indian yoga. Surely it would  
be more fruitful to compare the former with the Indian dharmasastra  
tradition and the latter with Christian mysticism? But how do you even  
raise this objection when dharma is conflated with yoga as Rajiv does  
when he consistently refers to Indian yogis as dharma practitioners?  
As two of the critics - Robert Yelle and Gerard Larson - have pointed  
out: there is little that is original in this work and it is not  
'different enough'. Hopefully, Rajiv's latest offering Indra's Net is  
an improvement. Likewise, I find Devadutta Pattanaik simply  
regurgitating the Western views of myths as subjective truths, of  
beliefs as the basis of actions, and so on. Neither of the two appear  
to have a done a deep study of the tremendous intellectual diversity  
prevalent in the Indian and Western traditions, yet are found  
articulating the essences of both.  
  
So this basically is my experience of studying Indian tradition. Hope  
this helps.  

