+++
title = "001 P S"

+++
[[P S	2019-05-19, 05:50:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/qj5Ou0W-vfg)]]



In his introduction to 'Teach yourself Sanskrit", Michael Coulson seems to offer reasons for the position taken by Whitney. I wonder whether Coulson's comments are flattering to Whitney but you must read them for your own enlightenment. I provide excerpts from this introduction.

  

No matter what, you're probably in the wrong group if you think questions of this type will be answered here. I don't think this forum is for linguistic speculations or dealing with esoteric theories about languages, etc., I wonder whether there's even one formal linguist in this group. So probably no one in this group will be able to answer questions relating to how languages happen to be the way they are. Also, Whitney is one person. I'm sure he has his opponents as is characteristic of academicians and scholars. There's always someone who holds a position exactly opposite to yours.

  

And it's difficult to think that you're earnest in asking these questions. Your questions are not being asked with the sincerity characteristic of a true seeker. It seems that you've made up your mind already and are merely seeking answers that would confirm the position you've already taken. It even seems that you want to provoke or revive controversies merely for the heck of it. :-)

  

  

Excerpts from Introduction to the book "Teach yourself Sanskrit" by Coulson:

  

W.D.Whitney, a great but startlingly arrogant American Sanskritist of the nineteenth century, says of the Classical language: "Of linguistic history there is next to nothing in it all; but only a history of style, and this for the most part showing a gradual depravation, an increase of artificiality and an intensification of certain more undesirable features of the language -- such as the use of passirve constructions and of participles instead of verbs, and the substitution of compounds for sentences." Why such a use of passives, participles and compounds should be undesirable, let alone depraved, is left rather vague, and while there have been considerable advances in linguistic science in the past fifty years there seems to have been nothing which helps to clarify or justify these strictures. Indeed, Whitney's words would not be worth resurrecting if strong echoes of them did not still survive in some quarters.

  

..... The syntax of Classical Sanskrit in many major aspects bears little resemblance to the syntax of any other Indo-European language (leaving aside similarities in certain kinds of Middle Indo-Aryan writing.)Whitney is typical of many Western scholars who manage to convey contempt for the avoidance of the intricacies of the Old Indo-Aryan verbal system, with a simultaneous contempt for the pedantry of those who flex their grammatical muscles from time to time by using a number of recherche forms and irritation at the difficulty of understanding the ordinary language of the learned. The first two points are of little importance. As to the third, it is certainly true that modern scholars often meet with ambiguities and obscurities in reading Classical texts, and that some of the ambiguities arise out of the use of long compounds. But the texts were not written for us, and there is little to suggest that Sanskrit writers qualified to participate in academic discussion found any difficulty in following the language it was couched in: such a situation would indeed have been perverse. (The use of long compounds in creative literature (kavyam) is something of a separate issue: there, easy intelligibility might well be at odds with the desire to achieve some particular effect.) What is perhaps true is that such a style does not take kindly to textual corruption. A great burden of information may be carried by a single vowel or consonant, the alteration of which may give an entirely different twist to the meaning of a whole sentence. To this may be added the inadequacy of the existing dictionaries for many kinds of Sanskrit text, and the fact that modern scholarship has still a long way to go in reconstructing the cultural and intellectual presuppositions, the 'universe of discourse' implicit in Sanskrit literature.



