+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2019-03-04, 23:20:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/DftpTMyvYK8)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As Maha Shivaratri falls on Monday (04-Mar-2019), I am delighted to share an exquisite prayer on Lord Maheshvara taken from Sri Kurma Puranam, Upari Vibha, Chapter 5. The Upari Vibhaga is otherwise known as Ishvara Gita (there is yet another Ishvara Gita in Varaha Puranam). Though this hymn is taken from Chapter 5, the greatness of Lord Shiva and his cosmic form are explained in multiple chapters.

  

This hymn was sung by the sages when Lord Ishvara appears in the sky in front of them in the combined form of Lord Vishnu and Lord Rudra during his cosmic dance- with Lord Vishnu on this left side. After the prayer, Lord Ishvara further explains that He is the root of this universe and all manifestations including that of Lord Brahma and Lord Narayana are indeed His forms to perform various duties in the subsequent chapter.

  

***sarva-lokaika-nirmAtA sarva-lokaika-raxitA \| sarva-lokaika-saMhartA sarvAtmAhaM sanAtanaH \|\| 6-2 \|\|***

***sarveShAM eva vastUnAM antaryAmI pita hyayaM \| madhye cAntaH sthitaM sarvaM sarvaM nAhaM sarvatra saMsthitaH \|\| 6-3 \|\|***

**Meaning : I create, protect and destroy all the worlds. I am omnipresent in all beings but all these things do not define me.**

...

***yo.api nArAyaNo .ananto lokAnAM prabhavAvyayaH \| mamaiva paramA mUrtiH karoti paripAlanam \|\| 6-14 \|\|***

*Meaning : One who protects this universe as Lord Narayana is just a form (Murty) of me.*

...

***yA ca shrIH sarva-bhUtAnAM dadAti vipulAm shiryam \| patnI nArAyaNasyAsau vartate madanugrahAt \|\| 6-31 \|\|***

*Meaning : Goddess Lakshmi, consort of Lord Narayana, bestows wealth to beings due to my will and blessings.*

...

***ahaM hi bhagavAn IshaH svayaM jyotiH sanAtanaH \| paramAtmA paraM brahma matto hyan na vidyate \|\| 6-51 \|\|***

*Meaning : I am indeed the Bhagavan, self resplendent, Isha, and Paramatma. There is none/nothing beyond me.*

  

Can anything be more pellucid than these? Mind you, this is given in a Purana which is termed Vaishnavite Purana. This provides chapter and verse to the fact that the hallucinations of differences among Trinity (Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva) are nothing but egoistic nonsense at the individual level and have nothing to do with our scriptures. In the last decade, we have seen tons of such citations and tons more to come.

  

May We pray to Lord Shiva on Mahashivaratri day with this epic hymn and May Lord Shiva bestow us the true knowledge and wealth!

  

With Pranams,

K. Muralidharan Iyengar (Murali)

[Samskrutam](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XX1VuY3A1Q2UtVWV5RTRxT2VHeUZiSDBzcEI4)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XRjJIQkJzUjRKaUUyUV9waGhfdzlfMnU1UVNj)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XSUxYeVZIN212bHFTNzVNUGhhdEx5dlhNWDA4)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XSVBaSmZadk9oZGU0X0JwQTVDRUFMOGdFektn)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XVnBUaFF5cVRsRHJNRGZkRTh3ZWQ1MFVjRDFF)  

[Gujarati](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XNXZfWFlSbVpONFhmb1RVYnpkOWlabTVBMUpN)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByHsyol17T5XdFVCMXRMLVd5b2N2eFBQeFkxTTJURmZSXzFB)  

  

