+++
title = "001 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-03-16, 20:46:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/pWNFDE7apiw)]]



Vidya,  

  
\<The verse is quoted in a book on Vedic Mathematics. \>  
  

1\) Can you explain the mathematical meaning of the verse?  
  
2) The following is for the learned Group as a whole.  
  
I believe that the phrase Vedic Mathematics has its origin in a book  
of that title written by Swami Bharati Krishna Tirtha and published  
posthumously in 1965 after Swamiji’s demise in 1960 due to old age.  
It was going to be the first among 16 such books that Swamiji was  
going to write but unfortunately he died just after completing the  
first book. Swamiji claimed to have rediscovered the sutras of Vedic  
Mathematics by his deep study of the Vedas, especially Atharva Veda.  
  
Do we know anything about the process by which Swamiji reached these  
secrets and can we identify the exact sources or words underlying  
them? Otherwise, it is just an ‘ipse dixit’ of Swamiji. Absence of  
these may well lead to the suspicion that these sutras were Swamiji’s  
own creations, masqueraded as ‘Vedic’ to gain wider acceptance and  
instant belief from the believers.  
  
Also, I wonder what is ‘mathematics’ about the sutras? They are  
basically complex ways of computing arithmetical numbers and, because  
of that reason, do not rise above the level of school arithmetic.  
Mathematics is much more than that. It generalizes from the  
particular and identifies common elements between apparently disparate  
things, which are not necessarily numbers only.  
  
This reminds me of a performance of Shakuntala Devi that I had  
witnessed several decades ago as a post-graduate student of  
mathematics. For that performance, we had created in advance many  
problems of arithmetical calculations and painstakingly found the  
answers. Armed with this elaborate preparation, we threw the problems  
at her one after the other. When a problem was posed to her she would  
close her eyes, think for a few seconds and dictate the answer off the  
bat! It was amazing. She certainly had a gift of an intuition with  
arithmetical numbers but nobody called her a mathematician for that  
reason.  
  
I know that the above may sound sacrilegious to some but I believe, in  
the modern times it is our right to demand reasoned answers and not  
just be invited to rely on श्रद्धा, which is not an acceptable  
standard of proof. Please notice the word परिपृच्छति in the श्लोक  
below:  
  
यः पठति लिखति पश्यति परिपृच्छति पण्डितानुपाश्रयति।  
तस्य दिवाकरकिरणैर्नलिनीदलमिव विकास्यते बुद्धिः॥  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, March 16, 2011.  
  
  
  

