+++
title = "001 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2011-03-05, 13:17:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/O-v7armDbJo)]]



Dear Mr.Iyer,

  

I thank you for your valued observations.

  

I found from the internet that Marco Polo landed in the Coromandal Coast. Later he traveled to Kerala.

It is true that he did not journey from Kashmir to Kanyakumari (North to South) nor from Dwaraka to

Assam (West to East). According to you his opinion is not trustworthy.

  

On this I can only quote a Tamil proverb - oru paanai chothukku oru choru patham.

  

To test cooked food a person tests only a small quantity of the cooked
food.  


-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** ksiyer \<[ksiy...@rediffmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [peek...@yahoo.com]()  
**Cc:** [4bra...@yahoogroups.com](); [iye...@yahoogroups.com](); [pat...@yahoogroups.com](); [usbra...@yahoogroups.com](); [sams...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Sat, 5 March, 2011 12:15:21 AM  
**Subject:** Re: \[Iyer123\] Marco Polo's description of Indians.  
  
  
  
Marco Polo never mentioned about the whole of India. His exposure was very limited only to the western coast of southern penensular India and perhaps Surat or Barooch. VEry ingerstingly he mentions Pandya King but does not mention Kerala (Chera) King.  
  
During his time, there was a confused Muslim rule over most of upper and Esatern India and Marco disliked Muslims ( perhaps this was the real reason why he avoided the upper and Eastern India in his travels.  
  
KRIS  
  
  
  
On Fri, 04 Mar 2011 06:08:05 +0530 wrote  



\_\_.\_,\_.\_\_\_  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Reply to sender \|  
  
Reply to group \|  
Reply via web post \|  
Start a New Topic  
  
  
Messages in this topic  
(1)  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Recent Activity:  
  
  
  
New Members  
2  
  
  
  
  
Visit Your Group  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Switch to: Text-Only, Daily Digest • Unsubscribe • Terms of Use  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
.  
  
  
  
  
  
\_\_,\_.\_,\_\_\_  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

|     | |-----| |     |

  

