+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2017-09-19, 22:22:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/hUgHewefUow)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. The **Sharada Navaratri** is just round the corner (starting on 21/Sep/2017) and in that connection I am delighted to share a short, sweet and very potent hymn on **Goddess Mahishasuramardini** taken from **Varaha Puranam** and **Chapter 95** (titled **Slaying of Mahishasura**). **Goddess Mahishasuramardini** grants the boon sought by **Devas** that one who recites this hymn with devotion may get relief from all troubles, get all desires fulfilled and live happily.

  

As we know, **Navaratri** is an occasion where **The Almighty** is worshipped in various feminine forms - **Durga** (and 9 Durgas), **Lakshmi** (8 Lakshmis) and **Saraswati** (8 Saraswatis). Though we have seen innumerable quotes from Puranson the oneness of various deity forms, a beautiful prayer by **Goddess Parvati** to **Lord Krishna** in **Narada Pancharatra** (Ratri 1, Chapter 12, Verses 55-63), ***a Vaishnavite text***, explains this very beautifully.

  

**pArvatyuvAca-**

**tava vaxasi rAdhA.ahaM rAse vRRindAvane vane \| mahAlaxmIshca vaikuNThe pAda-padmArcane ratA \|\| 55 \|\|**

**shvetadvIpe sidhukanyA viShNorurasi bhUtale \| brahmaloke ca brahmANI vedamAtA ca bhAratI \|\| 56 \|\|**

**tavAGYayA ca devAnAM AvirbhUtA ca tejasi \| nihatya daityAn devArIn dattvA rAjyaM surAya ca \|\| 57 \|\|**

**tat pashcAd daxa-kanyA .ahaM adhunA pArvatI hare \| tavAGYayA harakroDe tvad Bhakta prati-janmani \|\| 58 \|\|**

**Narayana-priyA shashvat tena nArAyaNI shrutau \| viShNorahaM parAshaktir viShNumAyA ca vaiShNavI \|\| 59 \|\|**

**Ananta-koTi-brahmANDaM mayA sammohitaM sadA \| viduShAM rasanAgre ca pratyaxaM hi Sarasvati \|\| 60 \|\|**

**mahAviShNoshca mAtA.ahaM vishvAni yasya lomasu \| rAmeshvarI ca sarvAdyA sarva-shakti-svarUpiNI \|\| 61 \|\|**

**tad rAse dhAraNAd rAdhA vidvadbhiH parikIrtitA \| paramAnanda pAdAbjaM vande sAnanda pUrvakam \|\| 62 \|\|**

**yat pAda padmaM dhyAyante paramAnanda-kAraNam \| pAda padmesha sheShAdyA munayo manavaH surah \|\| 63 \|\|**

**yoginaH santataM santaH sid.hdhAshca vaiShNavAs tathA \| anugrahaM kuru vibho bud.dhi shaktir ahaM tava \|\| 64 \|\|**

**  
**

Meaning : *Parvati said - I am Radha in your Vakshasthala, who was in Vrindavana. I am Lakshmi in Vaikuntha, who does service to your Lotus Feet. ... I am Brahmani, Vedamata Gayatri, and Sarasvati in Brahmaloka. Now I am the daughter of Daksha and the consort of Shankara. I am the most ardent devotee of yours and your most beloved and that is why I am called Narayani in Vedas. I am the mother of Mahavishnu and I am at the root of this universe. ... I am your Buddhi as well as Shakti*.

  

Do we need to say anything more? If we really look at this, it is essentially what **Lord Narayana** says in **Gayatri Stuti** in **Devi Bhagavata** (**Adishakte jaganmAtar bhaktAnugraha-kAriNI** ...). So for sure, deluded are those who can't get past the nama-bheda forms and they deserve pity!

  

May We Pray To The Omnipotent Almighty in the form of Mahishasuramardini with this hymn during Navaratri.

  
[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTUxBQkZ2T2VxRUFLN244dTR3cUpQVllQR3lF/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XN2FRbmQtbE9sVnRDYWcwY0xLMHdfbTZTeWVr/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XRzJiaHIzNDZvc2ZSR1kxdWJYQ1JBQ1dGTjZj/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTmk3TVcwejV6T3JpQ2xRS2RsNV9lN1FoYkpR/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XS1hMa2tXMnpDUzNfbGJqa00zcXNVc2U0TmFz/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XSE1ZSDFORVRPaVk0djF4UDRLSVJHRFJzWTZN/view?usp=sharing)  

  

