+++
title = "010 S K"

+++
[[S K	2019-05-25, 07:11:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/wpCgcmObpSQ)]]



The sectarian source seems to use "atat" like Humpty-Dumpty:

  

“When *I* use a word,” Humpty Dumpty said, in rather a scornful tone, “it means just what I choose it to mean—neither more nor less.” “The question is,” said Alice, “whether you *can* make words mean so many different things.” “The question is,” said Humpty Dumpty, “which is to be master—that’s all.”

  

  

Here is one verse from a non-sectarian translation: 10:13:57  

  

57. When Brahma, the Lord of Sarasvatl (the goddess of

learning) who was incapable of comprehending Lord Krsna’s (or the Supreme Brahman’s) special glory and greatness, be-came confused about Brahman which is beyond the reach of logical reasoning, and is thus incomprehensible — Brahman which stands resplendent in its perfect bliss ; is far above and beyond Maya, and is unborn, and can be known only through the Veddntic ( Upanifadic ) texts which describe It in the negative

terms ( neti> neti — ‘It is not so, It is not such’), and he could not even perceive the manifestation at all, Krsna, the Supreme Unborn Lord immediately understood god Brahma’s perplexity, and drew off the curtain of his Maya.

  

same verse from the sectarian translation:

  

<https://www.vedabase.com/en/sb/10/13/57>



The Supreme Brahman is beyond mental speculation, He is self-manifest, existing in His own bliss, and He is beyond the material energy. He is known by the crest jewels of the Vedas by refutation of irrelevant knowledge. Thus in relation to that Supreme Brahman, the Personality of Godhead, whose glory had been shown by the manifestation of all the four-armed forms of Viṣṇu, Lord Brahmā, the lord of Sarasvatī, was mystified. “What is this?” he thought, and then he was not even able to see. Lord Kṛṣṇa, understanding Brahmā’s position, then at once removed the curtain of His yoga-māyā.

  

  

to ascribe the meaning "irrelevant" to "atat" is frivolous.  





> 
> > 
> > Naresh  
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 





> 
> > 
> > 
> > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to sams...@googlegroups.com. >
> 
> > 
> > 



