+++
title = "000 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-05-25, 23:19:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/nZQH1duBqHU)]]



Dear Group,  
  
I think it would be appropriate to start this new thread, taking off  
from the discussion about गीताध्यान in the older thread 'श्रुति versus  
स्मृति' as the following does not meaningfully fit under the older  
thread.  
  
The site <http://sites.google.com/site/universalbhagavadgita/> appears  
to have some significant, but generally unknown, information about  
गीताध्यान shlokas and गीता.  
  
It says the following about the antecedents of the गीताध्यान shlokas:  
  
\< Generally, before commencing the study of the text, we study what  
are called the Gita Dhyana Shlokas, 'the nine Mediation Verses on the  
Gita.' They are current all over India, and now, in foreign countries  
also. We don't know who composed them. Some people believe it was  
Sridhara Swami, a commentator on the Gita and on the Srimad  
Bhagavatam, who lived about three or four centuries ago. The Gita  
Dhyana Shlokas refer to the Gita, to Vyasa, the author of the  
Mahabharata, and to Sri Krsna.>  
  
It also tells us that it was AdiShankarAchArya who brought गीता into  
prominence as a major philosophical text. Prior to him it was just a  
collection of verses buried within the BhIShmaparva. The source of  
this line of thought is quoted as Swami VivekAnand.  
  
\<In the modern period, the Gita has the whole world as its empire. In  
the beginning, it was known only in India, not even in the whole of  
India, but known only to a few Sanskrit scholars. For the first time,  
in the 8th century A.D., this book was taken out of that mighty epic,  
The Mahabharata, by Sankaracharya, who wrote a great commentary in  
Sanskrit on it and placed it before the people. Till then it had been  
lost in the Bhisma Parva of the mighty epic. Swami Vivekananda  
expressed great appreciation for this great work of Sankaracharya. To  
quote his own words from his lecture on 'Vedanta in All its  
Phases' (The Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, Vol III P 328):  
  
'The great glory of Sankaracharya was his preaching of the Gita. It is  
one of the greatest works that this great man did among the many noble  
works of his noble life - the preaching of the Gita, and writing the  
most beautiful commentary upon it. And he has been followed by all  
founders of the orthodox sects in India, each of whom has written a  
commentary on the Gita.'  
  
Even then, it was limited to a few scholar and saints. Later, others  
wrote commentaries and slowly the book entered into our national  
languages; Jnaneswari in Marathi, by the saint Jnaneswar, a few  
centuries after Sankaracharya. In the modern period, Lokmanya Tilak  
wrote his great book, The Gita Rahasya, in two volumes. He wrote it  
when the British Government had imprisoned him for a few years in  
Mandalay jail in Burma. He had no books to consult with, but wrote  
from his memory. That is a remarkable book;…>  
  
The site also says the following upon how entered the Western culture  
and the modern world.  
  
\< The Gita was first translated into English by Sir Charles Wilkins  
and published by the British East India Company with an introduction  
by Warren Hastings, the first British Governor-General of India, in  
which we find the following prophetic sentence:  
  
'The writers of the Indian philosophies will survive when the British  
Dominion in India shall long have ceased to exist, and when the  
sources which it yielded of wealth and power are lost to remembrance.'  
  
A century later, another beautiful rendering of the Gita in English,  
namely, The Song Celestial, by Sir Edwin Arnold (1832-1904). He had  
learnt the Sanskrit language while he was working in India; in Pune  
and other places. He developed a great love for Indian culture, and  
after he went to England, he produced this book and another equally  
outstanding book about Buddha, namely, The Light of Asia. Both have  
gone through more than fifty to sixty editions. Both go straight to  
the heart of the reader. \>  
  
It is somewhat mystifying that the site <http://sites.google.com/site/universalbhagavadgita/>  
is almost empty. It does not seem to contain anything beyond the one  
page that we see, nor do we know who has created or sponsored the  
site. I would think that someone by name Girish S.V. has created it  
but he has not gone beyond the first page. The content of that one  
page is a narration in the first person by someone, whose name is not  
mentioned anywhere. However, the narrator seems to be someone with  
some authority to speak on गीता. This can be surmised from the  
mention that he had gone to see Gen Chaudhary in 1949 at the time of  
the Hyderabad Police Action when he told the General as to what can be  
learnt from गीता. The narrator thereafter went to Delhi to head the  
Ramakrishna Mission Branch there. The narrator thus appears to  
someone of stature in the Ramakrishna Mission.  
  
Intrigued by the name of Sir Charles Wilkins, I searched the site  
[book.google.com](http://book.google.com) and came across the full-view digital image of the  
following books by him:  
  
a) Bhagavad-gita (1787) in French, <http://tinyurl.com/3voezxs>  
b) Hitpadesha (1787), <http://tinyurl.com/3mumgyo>  
c) Sanskrit Grammar (1808), <http://tinyurl.com/3fe8gff>  
  
The Introductions of all these books, especially that of the last one  
are worth a look for those who may be interested in knowing why the  
early Western orientalists were attracted towards the study of  
Sanskrit and Sanskrit literature.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, May 25, 2011.  
  
  
  
.

