+++
title = "002 Shambhu"

+++
[[Shambhu	2011-05-26, 04:44:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/nZQH1duBqHU)]]



The Bhagawad-gItA’s current popularity may be due to Adi Shankara – he  
elevated it through the prasthAna trayI; all the sampradAyas followed.  
However, lot more than the gItA was popular till pre-British India  
(from the times of the Gupta era or even earlier); only the gItA is  
now popular. Veda-shAstras, purANas, Samskrita sAhityam, etc. are now  
studied only by the Vaidika practitioners and some temple archakas.  
  
Dhrampal’s “The Beautiful Tree: Indigenous Indian Education in the  
Eighteenth Century”, has been quoted by others in some earlier thread,  
<http://www.samanvaya.com/dharampal/>. In it we find that not just the  
BhagawadgItA, lot more were taught in great detail in pre-British  
India. It was not limited to devotional worship.  
  
Primary education then involved studies of subjects such as:  
  
rAmAyaNa, mahABhArata, and purANa (such as BhAgawata, Vishwakarma  
purANa pertaining to manufacturing); panchatantra, vEtAla  
pa\~NchavimshatI; texts in local language of local heroes (example: on  
Basavanna and his teachings in parts of Karnataka); niGhantu,  
amarakOsha, shabdamanjarI, (samskr\`ta) vyAkaraNa; rukmiNI kalyANa,  
kAvyas - several shatakams (rAmatAraka, kr\`SNa, sumati, jAnaki,  
prasannarAga, BhAskara, BhImalingEshwara, nArAyaNa, sUryanArAyaNa,  
etc.), charitrA - history (manu, naLa, vasu, vAmana, prahlAda, etc.),  
kr\`SNalIlA; gaNita, vIraBhadra vijaya, gajEndra mOkSha, etc.  
  
Higher education involved:  
  
The vEdas (for dwijas only) – rik, yajus, sAma, aTharva; raGhuvamsham,  
kumArasambhavam, mEghasandEsham, BhAravi, naiShadham; shAstras  
(pANini, siddhAnta kaumudi, tarka, jyOtiSha, DharmashAsta; kAvya,  
medicine (charaka samhita etc.), saNgItA, nr\`tyam, law, astronomy,  
ethics, etc.  
  
Dhrampal also indicates that India’s education since Nalanda times  
(5th-12th century) till the onset of British rule was pretty much  
along the above topics. Several original texts in Math, astronomy,  
Jyotisha, metallurgy, etc. were written during this period. While only  
the Vedas were studied by the dwijas, the rest of the subjects were  
studied by all, almost 2/3rd being shUdra (even in subjects such as  
tarka or mImAmsa). The literacy rate was also quite high (>90%). Girls  
were taught these subjects in their homes. Boys attended the village  
pAtasHAlA or gurukulam.  
  
This account suggests that the study of the BhagawadgItA was merely a  
subset. Lot more than the gItA were deeply studied: the major  
shAstras, medicine, law, sciences, astronomy, ethics, and their  
applications in life and society. There is nothing that suggests that  
the serious study of gItA was absent. All the technical and literary  
works in Samskrita from a few centuries BC through the 17th century  
would not have been possible without such wide and deep basis.  



