+++
title = "007 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-08-28, 01:45:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/QPETq3HCLBo)]]



Dear Group,  
  
Enough has been said in the previous postings about the possible  
origin of the so-called 'AllopaniShat'. A paragraph of it is  
available at some sites, purporting to be the AllopaniShat, like the  
one at the site <http://tinyurl.com/3n7vx8r>. A bigger version too  
looks possible as noted at <http://groups.yahoo.com/group/INDOLOGY/message/4887>:  
'See the collection titled Upanisatsamgraha published by Motilal  
Banarsidass in 1970. This Upanisad is printed on pp 392-93 of the  
second part. Both pt I and II are bound in one volume.'  
  
I am somewhat amused by the strident tone in most of the websites that  
refer to it. They all rush to condemn it as a spurious addition and  
are virtuously indignant at someone's daring attempt to join the name  
word 'Allah' to 'Upanishat'. Even Vivekanand does so here:  
<http://tinyurl.com/429scko>.  
  
I am certain that no intelligent person will ever buy into the theory  
that it is as old as the other Upanishats or that it a core part of  
the Ancient Indian Philosphy. But why be angry if someone wishes call  
it as AllopaniShat? Imitation is the best form of flattery. Those  
who take pride in the Indian Heritage should be happy that someone  
wants to imitate it.  
  
There also exists 'KhristapurANa' written by Father Stephens  
(1549=1619), an English Jesuit who spent 40 out of 70 years of his  
life of in Goa. (<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/>  
Thomas_Stephens\_(Jesuit)). He wrote a book in Marathi and called it  
called 'KhristpurANa'. (It was printed in Goa in 1616 and is believed  
to be the first printed book in Marathi.) He has narrated the Life of  
Jesus Christ in it in the style of the Indian Puranas. None has taken  
any umbrage at the 'hijacking' of the word 'Purana' by Stephens. Why  
are we so worked up at 'AllopaniShat'?  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, August 27, 2011.

