+++
title = "037 q885"

+++
[[q885	2018-07-06, 16:48:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/wjCQVxCQ1p0)]]



Pāli is not older than Vēdic. As time passed the descendants of people who spoke Vēdic (or some tongue in geographical continuum with Vēdic) through a sort of telephone game across generations, spoke differently than their ancestors. At the same time, there were people who recited Vēdas and continued to learn proper (Saṁskr̥ta) speech.

  

There are other languages very closely related to Pāli such as Ardhamāgadhī and Gāndhārī. The group of languages that they form is known as Prākr̥ta, because it was the natural (uncultivated) speech. The earliest surviving inscriptions in Prākr̥ta are the pillars of Aśōka.

  

In Prākr̥ta, in any word which has two unlike consonants (not counting anusvāra) next to each other, sandhi occurs such that there is a double consonant, or occasionally a vowel is inserted between them. Also, any long vowel which precedes a double consonant is shortened.

  

Examples: Sūtra becomes sutta, but so does sūkta. Dharma becomes dhamma. Pratītyasamutpāda becomes paṭiccasamuppāda.

  

Also there is virtually never a form which ends in a consonant.

Ātman becomes atta.

  

Because of the continuing study of Saṁskr̥ta-vyākaraṇa, we know the etymologies for most words in Pāli.

  

No language is the oldest language. Every language that is spoken or that we have any record of is not any sort of oldest language, but a natural progression from earlier languages. Pāli evolved from Vēdic.
Italian evolved from Latin. Modern Greek evolved from Ancient Greek.
Contemporary English evolved from Anglo-Saxon (with some significant influence from Old French).

  

But sometimes we don't have any record of the older languages that those languages evolved from. But we still have a good idea of the phonemes that gave rise to the forms in daughter languages, even if we don't know how those phonemes were pronounced.

  

An example using three words that exist in English:

Chakra \<- cakrám \<- \*čakrám \<-\*kʷekʷlóm

Cycle \<-kúklos \<-\*kʷékʷlos

Wheel \<- hwēol \<- \*hwehwlą \<- \*kʷekʷlóm

  

The forms marked with an asterisk have not been seen but have been inferred by comparing descendants. The last form is in a language we've come to call "Proto-Indo-European" or PIE.

  

Then people go on to speculate about common ancestors for PIE and the proto-languages of other groups. That is a whole lot more speculative and there's not really much to go on. My point is that no matter how far back you go in human history/prehistory, there are older languages that gave way to variations on them.



