+++
title = "001 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2010-10-28, 10:30:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/JFavlSbu4SA)]]



Dear Mr. Eddie Hadley,  
  
You are of course smart ! You have already typed संस्कृत absolutely "letter-perfect" !  
  
For one who is interested to be able to read hence to basically recognize the letters, I am attempting to make a small beginning in this message.  
  
To be able to write, one needs to know the path transcribed by the different strokes - where one starts, how one proceeds and how the letter ends. That should not be needed at the stage of just recognizing the letters for reading.  
  
As you must be already knowing, Devanagari letters are in two main groups - the vowels and the consonants.  
  
First the vowels -  
  
Basic vowels are 3 - अ इ उ  
अ pronunciation is transliterated by using "a".  
But the sound is as of  

-   "e" in "per" or -   "i" in "sir" or -   "u" in "but" -   "o" in "second" -   "ou" in "labour"  
-   Is there an English word, where pronunciation of the vowel sound अ
    uses the vowel "a" ?  

इ pronunciation is transliterated by using "i". The sound is as of "i" in "sit"  
उ pronunciation is transliterated by using "u". The sound is as of "u" in "put" or of "oo" in "foot"  
  
All these three vowels have their longer sounds represented by the letters आ ई ऊ  
आ pronunciation is transliterated by using "aa" or "A". The sound is as of "a" in "far"  
ई pronunciation is transliterated by using "ee" or "I".  
The sound is as of  

-   "ee" in "feet" or -   "ea" in "reach" or -   "ei" in "receive" or -   "ie" in "belief"

ऊ pronunciation is transliterated by using "oo" or "U". The sound is as of "oo" in "root" or "ou_e" in "route"  
  
For saying these six vowels in sequence, they are said in pairs of short and long.  
Hence the sequence is - अ आ इ ई उ ऊ  
Since Devanagari is a phonetic script, anywhere you spot these letters, they are to be pronounced as detailed, no variation ever.  
  
Does that make a good beginning for you ?  
If you like this, I should be able to cover all the alphabets in 4 or 5 messages.  
  
सस्नेहम् ,  
अभ्यंकरकुलोत्पन्नः श्रीपादः \|  
"श्रीपतेः पदयुगं स्मरणीयम् ।"  
[http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com](http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com/)  
[http://slezall.blogspot.com](http://slezall.blogspot.com/)  
स्थापित-दूरभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 22 2849 5365](tel:+91%2022%202849%205365)  
चलितभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 98330 72044](tel:+91%2098330%2072044)  
  





> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to > [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit this group at > <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita?hl=en>.  

  
  

