+++
title = "011 Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare"

+++
[[Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare	2012-06-04, 18:51:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/spg1ddyxW1E)]]



Dear Shri.Deepakajee,  
 namaskaara.  
 I am happy to note that you are interested in Understanding the "Meaning" of our age old sanskRuta literature.  
 Trying to Understand "guru" as bRuhaspati is an example of your curiosity (and perhaps of many others on this Group).  
  
 I wish to bring to your attention that a Star (like North Pole) or a Star Constellation (Like Saptarshee) or a Planet like this bRuhaspatee is named after certain Personalities or Philosphical Entities.  
 The sholak in question or the stotra in praise of guru, shukra, shani etc. do not describe the Properties of the respective Plants but the Characteristics of Symbolic Personalities in our ancient Literature.  
 The planet "mangaLa" is reddish and therefore it's name as angaaraka does represent a characteristic of color. But each such Planet (revered as a devataa) has a vaahana, aayudha etc. which are clearly not seen in the planet (in it's astronomical Sense).  
  
 In case this line of thinking and trying to understand the Real Concepts of "nava_graha" as deities in their multiple Hues and Colors is appreciated by yourself (or any other Members of this Group), we can discuss further on these lines.  
  
 With regards and best Wishes,  
 Dr.Ghare, Monday, 4th June 2012, Seattle, USA  
  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Sun, 3 Jun 2012 18:39:22 +0530  
Subject: \[Samskrita\] shloka for " Guru "  
From: [asha...@gmail.com]()  
To: [sams...@googlegroups.com]()





