+++
title = "020 Shreevatsa R"

+++
[[Shreevatsa R	2011-12-05, 10:54:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/LWd4m62YRCw)]]



I think the original question is clear: in Sanskrit, the lettersऋ ṛandऌḷ are classified as vowels.

In modern phonology, there exists a definition of what vowels are. (Such a definition also exists in Sanskrit.)  
The question is whether the Sanskrit vowelsṛandḷ are vowels in the modern phonological sense, and if so, what is their precise phonological description in the terms of phonology.

  

I do not know the answer. But looking at Whitney's Sanskrit grammar, which in general seems highly opinionated but well-informed(?), it has the following to say:

<http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Sanskrit_Grammar/Chapter_II>

(<http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Page%3ASanskrit_Grammar_by_Whitney_p1.djvu/39>)

  

\[Begin quote\]

23\. The ṛ- and ḷ-vowels. To the three simple vowels already mentioned \[a, i, u\] the Sanskrit adds two others, the ṛ-vowel and the ḷ-vowel, plainly generated by the abbreviation of syllables containing respectively a र् r or ल् l along with another vowel: the ऋ ṛ coming almost always (see 237, 241–3) from अर् ar or र ra, the ḷ from अल् al.

a\. Some of the Hindu grammarians add to the alphabet also a long ḷ: but this is only for the sake of an artificial symmetry, since the sound does not occur in a single genuine word in the language.

24\. The vowel ऋ ṛ is simply a smooth or untrilled*r*-sound, assuming a vocalic office in syllable-making — as, by a like abbreviation, it has done also in certain Slavonic languages. The vowel ऌ ḷ is an*l*-sound similarly uttered — like the English l-vowel in such words as*able, angle, addle*.

a\. The modern Hindus pronounce these vowels as*ri, rī, li*(or even*lri*), having long lost the habit and the facility of giving a vowel value to the pure*r*- and*l*-sounds. Their example is widely followed by European scholars; and hence also the (distorting and altogether objectionable) transliterations ṛi, ṛī, ḷi. There is no real difficulty in the way of acquiring and practising the true utterance.

b\. Some of the grammarians (see APr. i. 37, note) attempt to define more nearly the way in which, in these vowels, a real*r*- or*l*-element is combined with something else.

25\. Like their corresponding semivowels, r and l, these vowels belong respectively in the general lingual and dental classes; the euphonic influence of ṛ and ṝ (189) shows this clearly. They are so ranked in the Paninean scheme; but the Prātiçākhyas in general strangely class them with the jihvāmūlīya sounds, our “gutturals” (39).

26\. The short ṛ is found in every variety of word and of position, and is not rare, being just about as frequent as long ū. Long ṝ is very much more unusual, occurring only in certain plural cases of noun-stems in ṛ (371 b, d, 375). The ḷ is met with only in some of the forms and derivatives of a single not very common verbal root (kḷp).

\[End quote\]

  

This is not entirely clear to me, but the points to note seem to be:

  
\* Whitney is convinced they are vowels. (But the definitions in phonology may have changed since 1889.)

  

\* "The vowel ऋ ṛ is simply a smooth or untrilled*r*-sound, assuming a vocalic office in syllable-making", as in Slavonic languages, and "The vowel ऌ ḷ is an*l*-sound similarly uttered — like the English l-vowel in such words as*able, angle, addle*."

  

\* "The vowelsऋ ṛ andऌ ḷ are lingual and dental respectively, like the "semi-vowels"र् r and ल् l respectively.

  

-Shreevatsa



