+++
title = "005 धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>"

+++
[[धनंजय वैद्य  <deejayvaidya@yahoo.com>	2012-05-08, 03:25:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/8Mgh43O9Pco)]]



Different derivation. Both etymologically and grammatically  
(morphologically).

The etymology of family-membership terms is quite ancient. Also in  
terms of grammar. The case-terminations of the family-membership-terms  
are slightly different. (Note the difference in the nominative-dual  
पितरौ and कर्तारौ). As Shri Bhat has pointed out पाणिनि does not  
bother with deriving these family relationship words, but relegates  
them to naturally occurring words or the उणादि terminations, which are  
tenuous.)

Also consider the feminine family-relationship-words मातृ, दुहितृ,  
स्वसृ, ननान्दृ, etc. Other ऋ-ending words obligatorily take (ङ्)ई(प्)  
ending when feminine. Compare वन्दे मातरम् versus वन्दे दात्रीम् .

This suggests that when it came to the relationship-related words,  
native Sanskrit speakers had not back-formed\* any verb-तृ like meaning  
for the relation-words.

(\*Back-formation: When etymologically different words come to be  
looked upon as having similar formation, the process is termed "back-  
formation". E.g., in current American English the word "mentor" is  
thought to be formed "ment+or", thus allowing for the protegé to be  
called a ment+ee = mentee. Etymologically "mentor" came directly from  
the Greek, with no verbal formation even in the original. This example  
is not too random. The verbal termination "-ator" is presumably  
etymologically related to the Sanskrit verbal termination "-तृ".)

In any case, neither मातृ nor पितृ nor their cohort was back-formed by  
native Sanskrit speakers as the agent of a verb, thus retaining their  
ancient etymological distinction.

Regards,  
धनंजय



