+++
title = "010 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-08-15, 09:07:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/vu0aX-lzwAw)]]



Shankara,  
  
Please peruse the discussion under the thread 'Sanskrita vs Prakrita  
as spoken language' (December 2010) in this Group, where various  
aspects of this question have received attention.  
  
Briefly, my own view there was that use of Sanskrit in literature,  
statecraft, fields of knowledge, was more indicative as an expression  
of belonging to the elite group, than of the fact that classical  
Sanskrit was a spoken language, which, I think, it never was. The  
elite group wrote for the other members of the elite group and you  
would not be counted as a member of the elite unless you followed  
their accepted conventions, one of which was that Brahmans, Kings and  
suchlike spoke in Sanskrit while others spoke in Prakrit.  
  
To give a contemporary example, if you are an ordinary well-to-do  
person (not out to make a point ) and go to the Taj Mahal Hotel in  
Mumbai for a good time, you would mostly hear English spoken around  
you and you would be expected to speak in English. If you tried to  
speak in your native tongue, you fear that you may be missed for a  
country yokel. So, if you want good service from the hotel staff, you  
would 'choose' to speak in English, though in your own house you may  
be very comfortable in your native tongue.  
  
Coming to rendering Sanskrit plays in a non-Devanagari script, if you  
wish to remain faithful to the original, you should reproduce Prakrit  
dialogues in Prakrit and provide in brackets a Sanskrit 'chhaya' as is  
done in Devanagari books. As to the question how to reproduce the  
Prakrit correctly, the only answer that I can think of is that you  
just have to manage that somehow.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, August 14, 2011.

