+++
title = "001 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-06-16, 18:01:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/7pfXIW3IIgs)]]



Jaideep,  
  
I cannot give you the answer in the form you want but I can see why  
giving an answer in the form you want is difficult.  
  
Record-keeping in the sense we know it today must have been a very  
difficult thing in the past. This was for a variety of reasons. Lack  
of writing/recording material that would last long, instability caused  
by political changes, natural calamities leading to destruction and  
many such causes come to mind at once. Not the least of these was the  
comparative absence of awareness of the usefulness of preserving  
records.  
  
To take an example, reflect over your own previous generations. I am  
almost certain that you cannot trace your ancestors back beyond a span  
of 150 to 200 years. This happens even within the same family and  
will happen with a greater certainty with names going back into the  
distant past. I am sure a few thousand people today would be  
carrying the genes of Kalidasa and are his descendants, but do they  
realise that? No, because records have not been maintained, for a  
myriad of reasons. It is therefore no wonder that we cannot connect  
one VasiShTha of the Vedas with another of the Ramayana, both these  
periods falling far before Kalidasa.  
  
Physical law tells us that they were two different persons, just  
sharing the same name, which is not an impossibility. It is like  
sharing a surname over generations. But if I am asked to prove or  
disprove this statement, I plead lack of material as my reason why I  
cannot do so.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, June 16, 2011.

