+++
title = "003 Shambhu"

+++
[[Shambhu	2011-06-17, 08:57:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/7pfXIW3IIgs)]]



Namasthe.  
  
What is meant by ‘Rigvedic king lists’? They are, I guess, debatable  
interpretations. In the view of the Veda practitioners, there are no  
such human names in all of the rik samhita mantras. Indra, Divodasa,  
Varuna, etc. in the rik all are cosmic entities.  
  
The name of vasiSTa appears as one of the ten prajApatis created by  
creator Brahma in the early universe (time-wise, might have been even  
around the ‘big bang’ stage).  
  
ahaM prajAH sisRRikSustu tapastaptvA sudushcharam  
patInprajAnAmasRRijaM maharSInAdito dasha  
marIchimatrya\~Ngirasau pulastyaM pulahaM kratum  
prachetasaM vasiSTaM cha bhRRiguM nAradameva cha (manusmRRiti 1-34,35)  
  
yo devAnAm prathamaM purasdAdvishAdhiyo rudro maharSiH \|  
hiraNyagarbhaM pashshyata jAyamAnagM sano  
devashshubhayA smRRityA saMyunaktu \|\| – mahAnArAyaNopanishad  
  
It was several billion years later to these ten prajApatis or rudra  
maharSi that the svAyambhuva manvantara (i.e., the first age of the  
human creatures) commenced.  
  
The sages of the puraNas named the ‘ruling’ devatas and RRiSis for  
each manvantara (71 chaturyuga-long). These RRiSis too are devatas  
(sAdhyA RRiSayashchaye - rik). The seven RRiSis of the third  
manvantara were stated to have been vasiSTa’s sons. The list of seven  
RRiSis of the current (seventh) manvantara also has a vasiSTa. All  
these vasiSTas and the ‘ruling’ saptarSis “living” long for each  
manvantara were/are not human beings. The vasiSTa RRiSi of the samhita  
mantras may or may not refer to a human sage of same name (when we  
engage in the RRiSi-Chandas-devataa issues of a mantra). However, each  
of the sages through whom these mantras were revealed would have been  
referred to as a VasishTa (by his disciples and the then society in  
general) after his mantra revelations. The gotra scheme arose from  
such human sages. We see such naming in the case of Devavrata (called  
as daivarAto vishvAmitra), the RRiSi of Chandodarshana (1912). This is  
the method in the shAstras and in the vaidika practice of tracing a  
shruti to an original jIvAtman (in a deva or a human); it is revealed  
through the same jIvAtman from time to time. Most of samhita mantra  
revelations were in earlier kRRita yugas. Astronomical references in  
some brAhmaNa texts (the earliest Veda commentaries) place such texts  
to 8000-10,000 BC! Vedas they were referring to must have been older  
still.  
  
Moreover, the many vasiSTas or the vishvAmitras appearing in the Vedas  
and puraNas refer to different persons with such family names  
belonging to different times (may even be separated by quite a few  
manvantaras). As I quoted above, the early ones also refer to the  
divine (non-human) RRishis. Detailed (lifetime) study of the Vedas,  
shaastras and puraNas will be needed to figure out who is who (manuSya  
vs. deva and in what times).  
  
A human lineage of vasiSTa family was purohita for ikSvAku (time: last  
tretAdi) and his lineage. Traditional view is that Shree Raama’s  
purohita vasiSTa (in the last tretAnta) wrote the text on Yoga that  
bears his name. There is nothing to indicate that he revealed those  
samhita mantras bearing ‘vasiSTa’ as the RRiSi name. In the rik  
samhitA RRiSi names, we find many human vasiSTas, vishvAmitras,  
Angirasas, BharadvAjas, etc. For example, gAthinaH vishvAmitra had his  
famous fight with the vasiSTa of that time (during chandra-vamsha king  
Harishchandra’s time – long before Sree Raama’s).  



\> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  



