+++
title = "002 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2010-07-12, 06:02:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/eqCFzpnFuiY)]]



नमो नमः श्रीमन् "अविनाश साठये"-महोदय,  
(1) I was really searching for a good word to translate पालनम्. Your suggestion of "sustenance" is good. I thought of "grooming", because I thought, grooming is more comprehensive than sustenance.  
(2) Regarding your comment pointing to present tense of p\`Bavait , I would say that पालनम् is never a 'future' event. And death is never going to be a present event. So it will be difficult to relate present tense of p\`Bavait ,to the events संहृतिः and पालनम् being present or future. The point is of powers, which a साधक may acquire and the powers would carry an influence प्रभाव both on the present event of पालनम् and future event of संहृतिः  
(3) I connected the word vaaNaI in the fourth sentence. I thought one is speaking of powers of vaaNaI which a साधक may acquire. In the webpage they have connected it with "all the wealth of knowledge" *Vāṇī* with all thewealth of knowledge ever abides in the lotus of His face.” To my mind tsya Aananaabjao &anasaMdaohlaxmaI: sattma\\ inavasait is the fifth good complete sentence by itself. And the verb p\`Bavait has no subject, where vaaNaI fits in quite well.  
(4) I translated p\`Bavait as "carries (would carry) an impression (effect or influence)", keeping in mind प्रभाव implicit in p\`Bavait  
(5) You have commented quite well about the composition of सामासिक-शब्दः and you substantially seem to agree that there is a problem. Even by using the word आद्य in place of आद्यैः will it not still make it masculine or neuter, which would not go well with the feminine noun सा लाकिनी ? Your suggestion that the word आद्यैः may have been used for the sake of the meter would not justify grammatical mistakes, though they do grant निरन्कुशाः कवयः !  
(6) I had solicited comments on sentences 4 and 5, where there are points about subject for verb p\`Bavait and connecting vaaNaI with &anasaMdaohlaxmaI: as done at the webpage. I shall be obliged for comments on this score.  
धन्यवादाः  

सस्नेहम् ,  
अभ्यंकरकुलोत्पन्नः श्रीपादः \|  
श्रीपतेः पदयुगं स्मरणीयम् ।  

<http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com>  
  

On Sun, Jul 11, 2010 at 4:25 AM, Avinash Sathaye \<[so...@ms.uky.edu]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Here is the original translation with comments from the Shripadji's > wordpress site.  
> My responses are interlaced in red.  
>   
>   
>   
> **4 Anvayaa:** >
> 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > |            |                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                             | > |------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| > | **Anau@r** | **Anvayaona vaa@yama\\**                                                                                             | Translation                                                                                                                                                                 | > | **1**      | **A\~ laaiknaI Aasto**                                                                                               | Energy known as LAkinee abides here.                                                                                                                                        | > | **2**      | **saa saklaSauBakrI vaodbaahu: \]jjvalaaMgaI Syaamaa pItambaraVO: ivaivaQaivarcanaaiBa: AlaMkRta ma\<aica\<aa Aist** | She (is) comprehensively benevolent, four-armed, radiant, of dark complexion, adorned with yellow clothes and other variety of special decorations, (and) with exalted mind | >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > |       |                                       | > |-------|---------------------------------------| > | **3** | **enama\\ naaiBapd\\mama\\ Qyaa%vaa** | >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > |                                          | > |------------------------------------------| > | By meditating on this lotus at the navel | >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > |       |                                                        |                                                                                                                                                             | > |-------|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| > | **4** | tsya vaaNaI saM)taO palanao vaa inatraM p\`Bavait      | His (of one who meditates) speech certainly carries (would carry) an impression (effect or influence) at death (or destruction) or at grooming (protection) | > | **5** | tsya Aananaabjao &anasaMdaohlaxmaI: sattma\\ inavasait | On his (of one who meditates) lotus face resides the splendour of comprehensive, complete knowledge                                                         | >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > **Avinash-> The words saMhati and pAlana are translated as death and > grooming of the person doing meditation. However, these are future > events whereas the form of the verb is in present tense.  
> This is why the other translation "his speech acquires the power of > destruction and creation" is better.  
> Actually, I don't see why they changed pAlana into creation rather > than sustenance. Thus, the meditater acquires the properties of Vishnu > and Shiva(:-))  
> ** >
> **I would object to the translations of prabhavati as "carries an > impression" and nitarAM as certainly.  
> In this context, it seems to be more appropriate to translate nitarAM > prabhavati as "acquires the complete control over".  
> (Think: becomes a full prabhu-master of).  
> ** >
> **This way, even if you wish to only allow personal powers being > acquired, you have the option of saying so.  
> **  
> comments – >
> 

> 
> > 1. Above translation, especially of sentences 4 and 5 turns out to be > different from the one available at > <http://www.bhagavadgitausa.com/sat_chakra_Nirupana.htm> (see below) >
> 2. The construction pItambaraVOiva-ivaQa-ivarcanaalaMkRta seems to be > grammatically incorrect. >
> a. In the phrase **pItambaraVO: ivaivaQaivarcanaaiBa:** the word > **pItambaraVO:** is adjective of **ivaivaQaivarcanaaiBa:** But gender > of **pItambaraVO:** is masculine or neuter, whereas gender of > **ivaivaQaivarcanaaiBa:** is feminine. >
> 

> 
> > b. With pItambaraVOiva-ivaQa-ivarcanaalaMkRta is appearing to be a > single conjuncted / compound word. As per above analysis, > **pItambaraVO:** being adjective of **ivaivaQaivarcanaaiBa:** the word > **ivaivaQaivarcanaa** should not have been separately compounded with > AlaMkRta >
> 

> 
> > c. To be gramatically correct, the phrase should either be > pItambaraidiBa: ivaivaQaivarcanaaiBa: **A**laMkRta or pItambarI to be > a separate adjective of saa laaiknaI and ivaivaQa-ivarcanaalaMkRta as > another separate adjective. >
> 

> 
> > d. All the grammar seems to have become confused because of Aa**VOO:  
> ** >
> 

> 
> > **Avinash-> Yes, this is a problem. It is at least a bad samAsa > formation.  
> ** >
> **However, I can offer the following:  
> the word virachanA should be substituted with virachana which is neut. > and then one problem is resolved.  
> ** >
> **It is still a bad samAsa when the adjective of one part of the > samAsa is outside in vibhakti form. I think if it were to be left as > Adya then the meter would break, hence AdyaiH was used.  
>   
> ** >
> e. The capital H in the phrase “in the lotus of His face” (in the > translation on the webpage) suggests that the translation is referring > to the face of God. However, by the above analysis, it rather seems to > be the lotus-like face of one, who meditates on naaiBapd\\mama\\ >
> **Avinash-> If he acquires the powers of Vishnu and Shiva, then he > deserves to be He, may be even HE :-) **  
> > 

> 
> >   
>   
> On 7/10/2010 10:03 PM, [sans...@cheerful.com]() wrote: >
> 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > -----Original Message-----  
> > > From: S. L. Abhyankar \<[sl.abh...@gmail.com]()\>  
> > > To: [sams...@googlegroups.com]()  
> > > Sent: Sat, Jul 10, 2010 6:29 am  
> > > Subject: Pl. comment on translation of shloka describing the > > > लाकिनी शक्तिः which abides at मणिपूरचक्रम्  
> > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > >  > > style="margin-bottom:0.0001pt;text-align:left;line-height:150%"> > > > > > > नमो नमः !  
> > > There has been some distraction in my lessons for Learning > > > Sanskrit by fresh approach at > > > [http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com](http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com/). > > > The distraction is caused by a call to study this shloka > > > describing the लाकिनी शक्तिः which abides at मणिपूरचक्रम् . This > > > exercise has led me to derive a meaning differing from the meaning > > > given at a webpage, which is mentioned below.  
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > >  > > style="margin-bottom:0.0001pt;text-align:left;line-height:150%"> > > > > > > अस्य श्लोकस्य मम अभ्यासः मया झटिति मम > > > [http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com](http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com/) > > > जालपुटे "Misc. studies" इति वर्गे निक्षिप्तः। कृपया तत्रापि > > > पश्यतु टीका-टिप्पणीन् च ददातु इति विनम्रा विनंतिः।  
> > > सस्नेहम् ,  
> > > अभ्यंकरकुलोत्पन्नः श्रीपादः \|  
> > > श्रीपतेः पदयुगं स्मरणीयम् ।  
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > >  > > style="margin-bottom:0.0001pt;text-align:left;line-height:150%"> > > > > > >  > > style="margin-bottom:0.0001pt;line-height:150%;background-color:rgb(255,255,255)"> > > > > > > Translation available at > > > <http://www.bhagavadgitausa.com/sat_chakra_Nirupana.htm> - > > > > > > 
> > > > > > “Here abides Lākinī, the benefactress of all. She is four-armed, > > > of radiant body, is dark (in complexion), clothed in yellow > > > raiment and decked with various ornaments, and exalted with the > > > drinking of ambrosia. By meditating on this Navel Lutus the power > > > to destroy and create (the world)is acquired. *Vāṇī* with all > > > thewealth of knowledge ever abides in the lotus of His face.” . > > > From *Ṣaṭ-cakra-nirūpaṇa* (21)  
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > >  > > style="margin-bottom:0.0001pt;text-align:left;line-height:150%"> > > > > > > 
> > > > > >  > > style="margin-bottom:0.0001pt;text-align:left;line-height:150%"> > > > > > >   
> > >   
> > > > > > 
> > > > > >   
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> >   
> > ``` > -- 
> >
> -- > With Best Regards, > Avinash Sathaye >
> Web: www.msc.uky.edu/sohum >
> ``` >
> 

