+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2018-09-12, 21:21:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/bmgUno_SItQ)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As Sri Kalki Jayanti falls on Sep 11, 2018 (Tuesday), I am pleased to share a rare hymn on Lord Kalki taken from Chapter 3 of Kalki Puranam. This is one of the two hymns on Lord Kalki in this Purana and I had shared the other one in 2012. This hymn is in prose form and essentially a Dashavatara Stuti (hymn on ten incarnations of Lord Vishnu).

  

In the Sanatana Dharma context, prayer to Lord Kalki is very timely as we see many of the prognostications that were supposed to be manifested at the end of the Kali Yuga are already manifest today, although we are in very early stages of Kali Yuga.  
  

While the awareness of Hindu religion and concepts is on the slow rise among Hindus and others, the assault on Sanatana Dharma in myriad ways is exponentially high and therefore it is at a critical juncture. One can't help oscillating between hope and despair. In 2018 alone, we have seen events that sent chill down the spine leading to despair - e.g. blasphemous comments/assaults on Goddess Andal and the ugly events that followed, feverish pitch of evangelists to convert Hindus and their shameless efforts to mimic Hindu faith to facilitate conversion including an attempt to appropriate Carnatic musicians recently, etc - just to mention a few. Thiruvalluvar has become a Christian and therefore Thirukkural is a Christian literature, in case you are not aware. There are many claims that puranas are not actually about Hinduism or Hindu gods - they are actually about Christiandom.

  

Amidst such worrisome developments, there are many in the Santana Dharma who have opted to be Kumbhakarnas and yet many other who engage in meaningless intra-sect-supremacy warfare as if they have nothing else to do and Hinduism is at the pinnacle of its glory. These are the Neros who fiddle when Rome is burning. In Tamil there is a more derogatory proverb which goes like this "A person, whose beard is burning, is actively looking for fire to light his cigarette". Of what avail is esoteric knowledge when basic wisdom and discerning ability to read the writing on the wall are in deep deficit?

  

Given this, may we pray to Lord Kalki, who has foretold that he does not trust human beings to protect Dharma and therefore has taken this onto himself! Apart from slaying the evil, may He also slay our ignorance, ineptitude, and inaction.

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XRHE0UVQzcWlPZENmaXZGZXBQMVBPYms1RWNN/view?usp=sharing)  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XRVByMGFtWTFXSkFZWDJLWEVZbW1XUkIzeTdV/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XV2hTa2pnaUZHNnRVc3E1S1J6SzdwamxFRXNj/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XdHNvX1VGUVF4Mzg4QV8zMDN3aUdFSlI5ZVQ0/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XR0pBTnM2c0NxT3k3QVVwYzgtSlFzUTItdVE4/view?usp=sharing)  

[Gujarati](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XNVNwU2dBa3RWb1U4ZkFndzhqS3NxQWtCbU1Z/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTld1U2xxMDU4X3ZOWThmTlI5Umh5cmdrNnBv/view?usp=sharing)  

  

  

