+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2013-01-16, 11:44:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/uC9D-eYhR3E)]]



Forwarded.



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  

----- Forwarded Message -----  
**From:** P.K.Ramakrishnan \<[peek...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**To:** Venugopal Sreenivasan \<[vsv...@gmail.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 16 January 2013 11:42 AM  
**Subject:** Re: Greek Origin of astrology  

  

Thanks very much for your detailed explanation. Your statement that jyotisham

is a vedangam ismisinterpreted by you and some others. Jyotisham here

refers to the science luminary bodies which is astronomy and not astrology.

  

The sanskrit word for astrology is daivam. An astrologer is called Daivajnah.

Joshi has come Jyotishi who is not an astrologer. In recent times the title

Joshi is being used mistakenly to mean an astrologer.

  

Varahamihira himself has used the word Daivavit to mean an astrologer.

Daivam means fate, luck.destiny, fortune. These are predicted on the basis

of stars and planets. This is astrology and different from astronomy.

  

If you are not convinced God alone can help you.



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Venugopal Sreenivasan \<[vsv...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [peek...@yahoo.com]()  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 16 January 2013 10:26 AM  
**Subject:** Greek Origin of astrology  

  

Dear Mr. PK Ramakrishnan,  

  

I would like to state that you've failed miserably in proving the Greek Origin of astrology. All the simple arguments that you've raised do not prove anything. If you have any more solid supporting evidence to prove your argument, kindly present them. 

  

I would also like you to look at these points:

  

1\. The Sanskrit word Mleccha does not always mean "uncivilized". It can be non-Aryan, barbarian, out cast of a race, ignorant of Sanskrit, foreigner and so on. The very sloka disproves your statement.म्लेच्छा हि यवनास्तेषु

सम्यग् शास्त्रमिदं स्थितम् This clearly shows that the sastra under reference is purely Indian and the Varahamihira is saying that even when Yavana is a foreigner this sastra (means the sastra that we are handling) is well established in him. He is praising a foreigner for knowing an Indian science so well.

  

2\. Many Yavana Acharyas might have been here at that time. You may note that Yavana Acharyas wrote texts in Sanskrit only and not in Greek. That also shows that they were here and learnt Sanskrit. On the other hand we have no proof for any of our Acharyas learning Greek. The commentsऋषिवत् only shows the respect Varahamihira had towards the foreigner who mastered the science.

  

3.क्रिय-तावुरु-जितुम-कुळीर-

लेय-पार्थोन-जूक-कोर्प्याख्या: /  
तौक्षिक-आकोकेरो  

हृद्रोगश्चन्त्यभं चेत्थम् / May be these are Greek terms. Does it prove anything other than the presence of Greek Acharyas here. They might have contributed so many things. And the terms they used may have been assimilated by us. Also Varahamihira is giving these terms as those terms which means Rasis from Mesha. Nowhere in Hora he has replaced the entire terms Mesha etc with Kriya etc. He has presented a few words which were commonly used by Yavana Acharyas who were here at that time.

  

4\. Your claim of "Kendra - now accepted as a Sanskrit word" needs a little research. I'll come to that later.

  

5.होरेत्यहोरात्रविकल्पमेके

वान्छन्ति पूर्वापरवर्णलोपात् /  

I don't see where Varahamihira wonders here as you claim. It is only a statement that the word Hora is derived from the word "Ahoratram" by removing the preceding and succeeding alphabets. As you said he did not say "IT COULD BE AHORATRA WITH THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THE FIRST AND LAST LETTERS". Where did you get that "could be" in this sloka?

  

Since Jyothisham is Vedangam and the period of Vedas are generally fixed you will be left with theherculean task of proving that Greeks were well up with advanced astrology 'sufficiently before' that time.  

  

I would request you to make an in-depth study and present your further arguments so that it will be useful to all.

  

regards

  

  

Venugopal Sreenivasan

  
  

  
  

