+++
title = "000 sri venkat"

+++
[[sri venkat	2013-04-16, 09:54:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/l7v0ZltGmlA)]]



Please leave your comments by clicking the link. (You don't have to register)  
  
<http://www.business-standard.com/article/beyond-business/evolution-of-a-sanskritist-113041200528_1.html>  
  
K Bhattacharya \| New Delhi April 12, 2013  
  
  
ON HINDUISM  
Author: Wendy Doniger  
Publisher: Aleph  
Pages: 664  
Price: Rs 999  
Evolution of a sanskritist  
  
Unrestrained by the need to address a foreign audience, Wendy Doniger  
seeks to answer all the questions Hindus might have about their  
religion in an impressive collection of essays  
  
Wendy Doniger makes two interesting confessions at the start of this  
book - a compilation of 63 selected essays, condensed into 43 chapters  
and distributed under seven broad segments to ensure ease of reading  
and thematic integrity. These are essays that she wrote on Hinduism in  
her long, distinguished career as an Indologist and published in  
different journals across the globe.  
  
Her first confession is personal. She says she was trained as a  
Sanskritist, but she was not a "real Sanskritist", who, she says, were  
so unfriendly that they would leave a room when she entered it.  
  
The second confession concerns her earlier book, The Hindus: An  
Alternative History. She says that the book was essentially meant for  
an American audience and, therefore, she was utterly surprised by the  
large number of Hindus who read it, some of them so  
"confrontationally" that she was appalled.  
  
Doniger's views on Sanskritists are no exaggeration and, hopefully,  
should provoke some debate in the country, which possesses so many of  
them. As she correctly notes, Sanskritists are "cold-blooded pedants  
interested in verbs and nouns". Modern India has plenty of them -  
missing the spirit of a truly modern and flexible language for the  
fussiness of its grammar and thereby depriving oneself of the  
pleasures of great literature and philosophy that Sanskrit could  
spawn. A language that was an outcome of a reformist drive is now a  
prisoner of those who are opposed to change and reform. That Doniger  
was a victim of such pedantic Sanskritists even in some universities  
of the West comes as a surprise. It only underlines the crisis that  
endangers one of the world's oldest languages that produced the Vedas  
and the Upanishads.  
  
Her second confession is startling because it reveals her naivety  
about the modern Hindu. This comes as a bigger surprise even for a  
Doniger fan like this author and the naivety is in stark contrast to  
her intelligent analysis and easy-flowing narration of Hindu  
mythologies and religious texts with subtlety, understanding and  
precision that are rare in most modern-day writers in this genre. Her  
earlier book on the Hindus had filled a gap that had existed for years  
- a document that could simply explain and background basic Hindu  
concepts, myths and ideas from ancient to modern times. Some Hindus  
might have approached the book confrontationally, but a much larger  
number of Indian readers expectedly lapped the book up for its  
intrinsic merit as primary reading material on Hinduism. It was clear  
that, contrary to Doniger's belief, many Hindus did not know many  
things about their own religion or were not averse to learning them  
from an "American woman".  
  
Fortunately, such naivety has had a hugely positive outcome. It has  
led to the birth of the current volume - On Hinduism. The essays in  
it, originally written many years ago, are rewritten and repackaged to  
form part of the thematically structured seven sections in the book.  
In doing so, she has kept in mind that the book is primarily for an  
Indian audience. Thus, the different chapters seek to answer all the  
basic questions a Hindu might ask about her religion - about  
polytheism, monotheism, birth and death, tolerance, reincarnation,  
myths of creation, laws on gender, desire and gaining control over it,  
the place of animals in Hindu religion and the eternal conflict  
between reality and illusion. You may quarrel with Doniger over the  
way she defines tolerance or question her assertion that there are no  
Indian words that correctly connote religious tolerance, but the  
coverage and treatment of issues and themes about which a Hindu is  
naturally curious is impressive.  
  
At another level, this book is an evolutionary journey for Doniger. In  
The Hindus: An Alternative History, she took pains to make the myths  
and concepts accessible for the Western reader. But in On Hinduism,  
Doniger is more relaxed and expanding on her favourite ideas and  
themes with the knowledge that she is addressing an audience that  
already has some idea about Nishkam Karmayoga or the role Krishna  
played at the battlefield of Kurukshetra, advising Arjuna about the  
relevance of action. Thus, she can easily wonder if Krishna in his  
dual role of both a god and Arjuna's sarathi (charioteer) is  
expounding the idea of gods being conscious of human fallibility. For  
those with a smattering of knowledge about Hindu mythologies or its  
main epics, On Hinduism will be a delight, since Doniger here is  
unrestrained by the need to reach out to an audience that might be at  
sea with the subject.  
  
If there is one chapter that virtually completes Doniger's  
evolutionary journey and connects her personal voyage with her  
becoming what a true Sanskritist ideally ought to, it is the one at  
the end of the book in which she explains the concept of a  
Vaanaprasthi, one who is in the third stage of her life. Like a true  
Sanskritist (as opposed to the "real Sanskritists" she was confronted  
with in her academic life), she has given a more acceptable and  
comprehensive definition of Vaanaprastha, where she can take a  
detached view of life and work without worrying or aspiring for  
anything, for achievement no longer matters to her. This is what  
Krishna would call the state of a Sthitapragnya (an enlightened  
person) or even a Karmayogi (a doer without any desire for results).  
Doniger, it seems, has a new name for them - Vaanaprasthi!  

