+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2011-05-13, 11:46:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/xIYd8vqSEZM)]]



Sevaliye award to Sri U.Ve. NSR Swami - Sanskrit Scholar

Very happy to inform a great news to all

Sri. U.Ve. Navalpakkam Sri. Satakopa Ramanuja  
Thathacharya (NSR Swami) has been conferred with the greatest award “Sevalia”  
from French Govt. He is the fourth Indian to be conferred with this award.  
Dr.C.V. Raman, Dr. M.S. Subhalakshmi and Dr. Sivaji Ganesan were awarded this  
title. Now Sri. U.Ve. NSR Swami has been declared to receive this honour from  
the French Govt for his contributions to Sanskrit Literature.

Sri U.Ve. NSR Swami hailing from Navalpakkam Vedic village which near vandavasi  
(130kms from Chennai) now residing at Bangalore. Swami is 83 years old learnt  
various sastras under his father Sri. U.Ve. Sri Krishna Thatha Mahadesikan and  
Sri. U.Ve. Ayya Devanatha Thathayarya mahadesikan. Having qualified in all 4  
sastras (Nyaya, Vedanta, Mimamsa and Vyakarana), Swami is expert in Advaitham,  
Visishtadwaitam and Dwaitam. Swami was the first Vice Chancellor of Rashtriya  
Samskrita Vidyapeeth, Tirupathi and currently emeritus Prof. in the French  
Institute of Indology, Pondicherry which is managed by Paris University,  
France.

To his credit Swami has been the recipient of many prestigious awards for his  
contributions to Sanskrit Literature mainly President Award for excellence in  
Skt literature, Sri Vani Dalmia Alankar Award (first recipient), Mahamahopadyaya  
etc. All pitadhipathis of India have honoured Sri. U.Ve. NSR Swami.  
Sri Swami epitomizes simplicity as envisaged in Srivaishna Tradition.  
As a jewel  
to  
his crown, the French Govt has announced the award of Sevalia to Swami for his  
contributions to Sanskrit Literature.  
--

Dhanyavada:  
Dr. V.C. Govindarajan,  
Kalidasa-Samskrita- Kendram  
18, Sannathi Street,  
Madurantakam, Kanchipuram district,  
Tamil Nadu, India. Postal Code 603 306.  
Ph: [+91-98404-00336](tel:+91%2098404%2000336), 97909-87100  
www.kskendra. com  
<http://groups>. [yahoo.com/](http://yahoo.com/) group/kalidasa/

knr

--  
If God brings you to it, He will bring you through it.  
Happy moments, praise God.  
Difficult moments, seek God.  
Quiet moments, worship God.  
Painful moments, trust God.

 Every moment, thank God  

