+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2015-04-17, 08:20:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/dnPVvF5Yg7E)]]



aryabahtiyam

  

bhaanaam-adhas-sanaischara-

guru-bhowm-arka-sukra-budha-chandraah. /

theshaam adhascha bhumih

medhiibhuutaa kha madhyasthaa //

  

  

Bhanaamadhah = under the stars

sanaischara = saturn

guru = jupiter

bhauma = mars

arka = sun

sukra = venus

budha = mercury

chandra = moon

  

theshaam adhascha bhumih = under them the earth

medhiibhuthaa = acting like an axle

khamadhyasthaa = remains in space.

  

saptaite horesaah

sanaischaraadyaa yathaakramam siighraah /

siighrakramaat chathurthaah

bhavanthi suuryodayaat dinapaah //

  

saptaite = these seven

horesaah = are the lords of the (24) hours

progessively faster from Saturn

sighramaat chaturthaah = the fourth speedier ones

bhavanthi suryodyaat dinapaah = become the lord of the day from sunrise.

  

(Explanation = The lords of the hours are - saturn, jupiter, mars, sun, venus, mercury and moon - and again in the same order. In three rounds they are the lords of 21 hours.

Again when there are 24 hours the next three are saturn, jupiter and mars.

So for the first hour of the next day sun becomes the lord. He is also declared the lord

of the day.



So we get Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.

Sanivar, Ravivar, Somvar, Mangalvar, Budhavar, Guruvar, and Sukravar.

  

The division of the day into 24 hours is a Greek method. Hora is a greek word for hour.

The Hindus still divide the day into 60 nadikas.

  

There is no mention of the week day both In Ramayana and Mahabharata.



(Originally Saturday was the frist day of the week. The Chirstians made Sunday

as the first day. It appears thar Jesus Christ was cruisified on a Friday and he

came back to life on the next Sunday.)

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  



-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

