+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2016-03-22, 21:10:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/g_-c0TkYN4k)]]



Courtesy:Sri.K.muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. The full moon day in the month of Phalguna is of religious significance all over India in different contexts. In the south, it is celebrated as the **wedding day of Lord Rama/Sita, Parvati/Parameshvara, Devasena/Kartikeya, Andal/Rangamannar**, etc as well as the **birth of Mahalakshmi**. Phalguni/Uttara is considered to be very auspicious for marriages. There are also many festivals such as **Holi** that signify Phalguna/Pournami.

  

In this connection, I am happy to share a very rare and sweet hymn on **Lord Vishnu** by **Sage Narada** taken from **Chapter 2** of **Brihan Naradiya Puranam**. This was sung by **Sage Narada** but retold by **Sage Shaunaka** in the **Purana**. The brief **Phalashruti** mentions that **one who recites this hymn gets absolved of all sins and reaches the abode of Lord Vishnu**.

  

Over the years, we have seen tons of citations from Puranas where the essence of **Sanatana Dharma** - ***ekam sat \| viprAH bahudha vadanti \|\|*** - is established beyond doubt even while extolling various deity forms. Sage Narada beautifully reiterates this point a couple of times in the attached prayer.

  

**shiva-svarUpI shiva-bhAvitAnAM hari-svarUpI hari-bhAvitAnAM \| 10 \|**

(Meaning: ***Lord Vishnu appears as Lord Shiva for those who are devoted to Lord Shiva and as Lord Hari for those who are devoted to Lord Hari***).

  

**brahmendra rudrA .anila vAyu martya gandharva yaxA .asura deva sa\~NghaiH \|**

**svamUrti-bhedaiH sthita eka Ishas taM AdiM AtmAnaM ahaM bhajAmi \|\| 14 \|\|**

(Meaning : ***The only Supreme Being takes different Murti forms such as Brahma, Indra, Rudra, Agni, Vayu****, etc*.)

  

So, it is needless to say that trying to zoom into non-existent bhedas among various forms of the Brahman is a fictitious and futile exercise which might temporarily give comfort to one's ego but zilch to spirituality.

  

The lives of real Mahatmas stand embodiment to this fact that religious fanaticism is an anathema to them. To give an example, **Saint Thyagraja's** devotion to **Lord Rama** and his divine vision of **Lord Rama** in his life need no introduction. Only one a billion/trillion can attain his divinity. It is true that he has sung innumerable songs on Lord Rama (**rAma eva daivatam - balahamsa**, **rAma nI samAnamevaru** - **Karaharapriya**, etc.) But the same Thyagaraja who sang "**rAma nAmaM bhajare - Madhyamavati**" also sang "**Shiva Shiva Shiva yena rAdA - Pantuvarali**". **Sri Vadiraja** was a great seer in the **Dwaita tradition** but he personally consecrated **Lord Manjunathaswamy in Dharmasthala** and did he need any lecture on being a staunch Vaishnavite?

  

To say the least, fanaticism is symptom of spiritual under-development or , more precisely, non-development. Spirituality is not a land of DMK/ADMK politics of Tamil Nadu - either you are with me or against me!

  

May We Pray to The Supreme Brahman with this beautiful prayer on Phalguna/Uttara day!

  

[Samskritam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XaEpUa1o2MWNEYTR6Q1ozV29xOW5GQ1BuY2tn/view?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XSVFmVUlXNGZzYWxqdUU5X1pwNXp5VGs0c3Q0/view?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XNUdLV2ZGZmlQaGFMUHl6V2VZbzFqWldfdHVn/view?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XSy1EY21mUXNaUG9oY0pUVkI5VHdDYk9ReUlB/view?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XUnlGdXN1Sy13Y05sWjBxbEx4MHF4VUdVbThB/view?usp=sharing)  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XVHFMV1llZEJfRnpJOUpXQ2pNT1FfNmpOTnBZ/view?usp=sharing)  

