+++
title = "006 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-11-15, 20:48:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/iZsRvGDNEkI)]]



There was a tradition in Maharashtra in olden times - and perhaps in  
other parts of India as well, though I do not know about it - for  
students from poor families living away from their parents to go  
around the town to collect food, called माधुकरी, by going from house  
to house. It was considered a duty of prosperous households to give  
माधुकरी to such poor students. Vidyarthi Griha of Pune, earlier  
called Anath Vidyarthi Griha has been giving free residence and food  
to deserving students for generations. In earlier times it was  
supported entirely by donations of charitable patrons. At least till  
the late 50's inmates of the Griha used to go around the nearby houses  
and collect symbolic माधुकरी every morning.

The chant for asking for माधुकरी was 'ॐ भवति भिक्षां देहि'. This  
phrase is so much a part of the social fabric that, in Marathi, asking  
for charity is called 'doing ॐ भवति'.

The point that I make is that the standard phrase was 'ॐ भवति भिक्षां  
देहि' and not 'हे भवति भिक्षां देहि'. Here भवति is clearly the संबोधन  
विभक्ति of the noun भवती, which, though it replaces the pronoun त्वत्  
(त्वम्), is still a noun, as MW shows it.

Replacing the second person singular pronoun with a third person noun  
to show deference and respect is common to all languages. In English,  
kings are addressed as 'Your Majesty' or noblemen and judges in courts  
are addressed as 'Your Lordship' and these are capable of taking the  
संबोधन विभक्ति. Thus, IMHO, 'हे भवति', though not the standard usage  
in this context, is not incorrect.

Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, November 15, 2011.

