+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2021-10-06, 22:59:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/KK74eoS3QqA)]]



<https://youtu.be/9DuB5-uOX_s>

  

An English transliteration and translation of Durga Chandrakala Stuti of Advaitavidyacharya, Srimad Appayya Dikshitendra.

  

1\) Above each shloka on the screen you can find a short description of which katha is dealt with in it.

  

2\) The Sanskrit text in Devanagari script is given on the left side while the English transliteration is given on the right side.

  

3\) Translation is given below the shloka's original text in the slide.

  

4\) Below the translation you can find the reference from the relevant portion of the Itihasa-purāṇas that is condensed by Dikshitendra in the shloka.

  

By doing Parayanam of this wonderful Stotram of Dikshitendra we can get the result of chanting

1\) the whole of Devi Mahatmyam,

2\) selected portion of Siva Mahapuranam's Vayaviya Samhita, Purva-bhaga,

3\) Pancharatrokta Lakshmi Tantram

4\) Selected portions of Varaha Puranam,

5\) Selected portions of Harivamsha,

6\) Selected portion Vishnu Puranam,

7\) Selected portions of Śrīmad Bhagavatam &

8\) One particular mantra in the Sama Veda's Samavidhi Brahmanam.

  

The glories of Devi described in all of these Vedic scriptures have been given to us in a condensed from by Dikshitendra.

  

Let us get the Devi's blessings this Navaratri by studying and contemplating on the meaning of Durga Chandrakala Stuti.

