+++
title = "003 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2010-11-09, 18:06:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/d8OA7E-7WOU)]]



नमो नमः !  
Since Science and Technology is too broad a term, one should focus on different branches of science. For example,  

one may to all the literature on Ayurvada and Yoga for "Mind and Health Sciences"

Atharva-veda, Bhaskaracharya, Leelavati, Arya-bhatt and others for mathematical sciences, as was done by Shankaracharya of Puri to outline Vedic mathematics  

1.  My Lesson No. 10 dealing with इन्द्र: वायुर्यमश्चैव नैरृतो
    मध्यमस्तथा । ईशानश्च कुबेरश्च अग्निर्वरुण एव च ॥ is an example of
    how many mathematical and scientific principles might be hidden or
    disguised. 2.  There would be tremendous scope to research and decipher the
    disguised scientific truths.  

I wonder whether Mahabharat becomes a treatise on Military Science also, which was tutored by DroNaacharya to the Kuru princes। For example, parjanyaastra could be the technology of artificial rains ! It may be same as seeding the clouds, or it could be different. Agnyastra could be the missile technology. The chariots could be vehicle technology and the horses could be symbolising the "horse-power"  

Chanakya on Political and Economic Science

Whole lot of Management-Sciences can be deciphered from Bhagavadgeetaa and many other scriptures.

All the ShaT-darshanaani are treatises

"Samskrita Bharati" has a book "Pride of India - A glimpse into India's Scientific Heritage"

Dr. Aravind Vaze compiled a book on Vaastu-Shaastra (i.e. Science of Architecture) which is a parallel, but maybe, more ancient than the Feng Shui concept from China

When Guru Drona made a differential treatment between his son Ashwatthaaman and the princes, so that he could have special time with Ashwatthaaman, Arjuna made a device fast enough, so that he could join in along with Ashwatthaaman. That must have been a pump !

Scriptures mention seven swargaaH and seven paataalaaH. It is possible that the seven swargaaH suggest the spheres above the environment above the earth, such as stratosphere, ionosphere, etc. and seven paataalaaH suggest seven geodetic strata below the earth's terrain and oceanic surfaces.

Bhrugu-samhitaa must be recognized primarily as a treatise on astronomy, extended to astrology. Astrology seems to be primarily statistical extrapolation of various astronomical permutations and combinations of planets, zodiacs and constellations by their motions and positions with reference to time and space.

Dr. Anand Jayaram Bodas, Retired Captain from Indian Air force has compiled a book on "Aviation Technology", drawing from a chapter "Vimaana-prakaraNam" detailed in Yantrasarvasva by Bhaaradwaaja-muni (I hope I made the notings correctly, when listening to his presentation at 3rd Sanskrit Sammelanam held at Mulund, Mumbai on 3rd October 2010.  

सस्नेहम् ,  
अभ्यंकरकुलोत्पन्नः श्रीपादः \|  
"श्रीपतेः पदयुगं स्मरणीयम् ।"  
[http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com](http://slabhyankar.wordpress.com/)  
[http://slezall.blogspot.com](http://slezall.blogspot.com/)  
स्थापित-दूरभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 22 2849 5365](tel:+91%2022%202849%205365)  
चलितभाष-क्रमाङ्कः [+91 98330 72044](tel:+91%2098330%2072044)



