+++
title = "006 Brad"

+++
[[Brad	2010-11-11, 21:09:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/d8OA7E-7WOU)]]



Hello frnds,  
Thank you all for your replies but I think some of you misunderstood  
me so I want to clarify here that I am also a firm believer of the  
fact that Vedas and Shastras are vast treasures of undeciphered  
knowledge and the reason why I am asking you this question is that a  
few years back I read a book on Physics "Concepts of Physics by H.C.  
Verma", there in the chapter on 'Speed of Light' the author quoted a  
Shloka from Rigveda and calculated the speed of light using the  
information encrypted (hidden) in the Shloka, thereby he demonstrated  
that many scientific thoeries and formulas are encrypted in our Vedas,  
which are waiting to get decrypted (decoded). In the book HC Verma  
wrote:  
  
"Perhaps, the great Indian talents in the Vedic age had the knowledge  
of the speed of light. G.V. Raghavrao in his book quotes a verse from  
Rigveda (I, 50-4)  
'Yojananam Sahastra Dwe Dwe Shate Dwe Cha Yojane Aken Nimishardhena  
Kram mana Namostute.'  
In this verse, the author pays respect to the one(the reference is to  
the sun light) who moves 2202 yojanas in half nimish. Yojan is a quite  
common unit in India, it means 4 kose, each kose measuring 8000  
British yards and each yard measuring 0.9144 m. The definition of the  
time unit nimish can be found in Shrimadbhagwat (III, 11-3 to 10)  
where it is mentioned that 15 nimishas make 1 kashta, 15 kashtas make  
one laghu, 30 laghus make 1 muhurta and 30 muhurtas make 1 diva-ratri.  
A diva-ratri is, of course a day-night which is 24 hours in modern  
language. When you convert 2202 yojans per half nimish into SI units,  
it turns out to be 3.0x10^8 m/s up to two significant digits, a value  
quite accurate as we know it today"  
  
Friends, I stronlgy believe that all major scientific discoveries  
which have been made(credited to westren scientists) were actually  
discovered by Indian Sadhus and Rishis centuries ago, they encrypted  
all their knowledge in the Vedas and Shastras and wrote them in the  
style of poetry so that the encrypted knowledge can be easily  
remebered forever in the form of poetry and can be passed on from one  
generation to another, for eg: Ramayan is the world's oldest poetry,  
so I believe that actually in the ancient times the sadhus and rishis  
encrypted their knowledge in the form of peoms like Ramayan so that a  
story about Shree Ram written in the form of poetry can always be  
remembered by future generations but what actually they wanted was to  
preserve the information in the Shlokas by decryting them  
  
and a few days back I came across the following review about the book  
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN VEDAS AND SASTRAS, Author: Dr.RVSS  
Avadhanulu  
<http://www.telugubhakti.com/telugupages/Monthly/Bookreviews/contenteng3.htm>  
  
if you read that review it is said that:  
"In different chapters, the author deals with almost all branches of  
science and narrates relevant Sanskrit text to prove that several  
present day findings are not new such as the concepts on gravitation,  
solar system, the value of Pi and so on. The author has carefully  
chosen and discussed many topics from Sanskrit literature which dealt  
with geometry, chemistry, physics, agriculture, irrigation, rain  
forecasting, imaging, wave theory, healthcare, energy, cognition,  
computers, cosmology, quantum mechanics and unified theory. Extracting  
computer concepts from Vishnu Sahsranama is very interesting."  
  
This review aroused my interest because tiil date I could not find any  
compilation of texts from Vedas and Shastras where  
decryption(decoding) of Scientific and Technological discoveries  
hidden in them is done, if any such online resource exists where such  
knowledge is given then kindly share it's link with me here, because  
if there is no such online resource available then I would like to  
start one. Any sharing of knowledge appreciated  
  
Dhanyawaad,  
Neeraj Semwal  

