+++
title = "014 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2010-11-13, 00:02:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/d8OA7E-7WOU)]]



Hello Group,  
  
Let me add my two-paise- worth of layman's views on this old debate.  
  
If the ancient sages had knowledge of sciences comparable to what the  
world has today, or even a part of it, how did they gain it?  
  
Two answers appear possible to this:  
  
A) They could have followed the same process of knowledge-gathering  
that the world has been doing for the last. say, 2,000 years, or, more  
narrowly, last 400 years since the renaissance. This process has  
involved active pursuit of knowledge by thousands of seekers over  
generations, cross-fertilization of ideas, a parallel development of  
technology and finding of physical resources. A missile can be built  
only when you have the underlying science ready, physical materials  
available and production facilities running. The scale of these is  
necessarily large, they are not cottage industries. If Ancient India  
had these, where did they disappear, without leaving any trace  
anywhere? Nothing has happened to the Earth in the last 10,000 years  
that would explain the complete obliteration of such physical  
infrastructures, if they ever existed. Archaeological diggings only  
yield the usual stuff like potsherds, flint and stone tools and  
funeral mounds. How is it that not a single nail survived out of the  
large physical infrastructure, if it ever existed?  
  
B) The other answer is that the sages 'divined' this knowledge by  
using and focusing their powerful minds. We obviously cannot ‘divine’  
today. Therefore we have to further postulate that the ancients were  
somehow better or more gifted than the moderns. This is a slippery  
path and all civilizations have taken it sometime or the other. But  
this is only a postulation without any data to support it.  
  
Neither of these two appears to answer the question. The second  
answer is also more dangerous as it opens doors to fundamentalism by  
attributing all wisdom to some historical figure or an undefined  
entity called' God' and encouraging suspension of healthy debate. It  
makes you fixated on some supposed 'ideal' time in the past, to which  
you are now invited to conform.  
  
An easier and more plausible explanation is that the ancient sages  
simply used poetic imagination, a kind of ‘what-if’ scenario. Hence  
the poetic roping in of the Rain God (Parjanya) or of the Fire God  
(Agni) in battles between humans. Man has always nurtured dreams of  
doing something that appeared, at least at that time, to a physical  
impossibility. That is why Icarus was made to fly close to the Sun in  
the Greek mythology. Nobody rushes from there to think that the  
ancient Greeks had known of aviation science!  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, November 12, 2010.  
  

