+++
title = "018 Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare"

+++
[[Dr.Dhananjay B. Ghare	2010-11-13, 14:19:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/d8OA7E-7WOU)]]



Dear Mr.Bradd alias Shri. Neeraj Semwalajee,  
 namaskaara.  
 As per the Wishes of the God, you have started a discussion,  
  which came by the Lord's wishes to my attention and  
it is now attracting so many good Contributions from so many members of the Group.  
  
 I am happy to read your personal clarification and happy to know that you are knowledgeable in the realisation of Scientific and Technological information in VedopaniShadic and related literature.  
  
 Actually as you know the word **"veda"** itself means **"knowledge"** and every word in that literature is related to "knowledge".  
 However, "**Science**" has by definition limited it's Scope to  
  "Repeatable_Natural_Behavior"  
or "**svayam_shaas**" which is an area of Knowledge where the natural activities are free to behave within and as per a Set of Laws,  
 (without interference or intimidation from the God).  
  
 You can say that Science by that definition is actually limited to areas where the **"Classical_Mechanics" is adequate to understand and predict the behavior pattern**.  
 However, the behavior of  
a)Sub_Atomic fundamental particles and  
b)Too Large Bodies like Star_Interiors & Galaxies do not come under this category.  
 **Their behavior pattern cannot be understood and predicted by "Classical_Mechanics".**  
 **"Quantum Mechanics" is a "Statistical" window into "param_shaas"** area of activities that are happening in this world of Manifested Universes.  
 **It's predictions can be true only with a certain probability (or "praabalyatva") of occurrence.  
  
** Vedic Knowledge tries to cover both these regions **("svayam_shaas"** as well as "**param_shaas**") and goes even beyond "Quantum_Mechanics".  
  
 With regards,  
 Dr.Ghare, Saturday, 13th Nov. 2010, Seattle, WA USA  
  
--------------- ----------- ---------------------------  
\> Date: Thu, 11 Nov 2010 07:39:15 -0800  
\> Subject: Re: Science And Technology In Vedas And Sastras  
\> From: [brad...@gmail.com]()  
\> To: [sams...@googlegroups.com]()  
\> CC: [dbg...@hotmail.com]()



