+++
title = "025 Brad"

+++
[[Brad	2010-11-17, 00:36:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/d8OA7E-7WOU)]]



Hello friends,  
Thank you all for taking so much interest in this discussion and I  
agree with Jaideepji that we should'nt leave this topic unless we  
reach a consensus.  
In the above discussion I found that some sajjans are being skeptical  
about the truthfulness of the Vedic Knowledge so let me give my view  
point on this. There may be primarily two reasons for such skepticism:  
firstly, our Vedas dont seem to follow the modern 'trial and error'  
approach to which we're used to, we're habitual of accepting a  
scientific hypothesis in editions and various updated versions i.e. a  
theory will come in 1st edition, 2nd edition and so on, which is a  
resultant of modern 'trial and error' approach, on the other hand are  
our Vedas which are eternal. our Vedas are the same Vedas from the  
time immemorial. They dont need to be updated as they are perfect. may  
be this makes people doubt that how can a 5000 year old collection of  
Vedic mantras and shlokas which're never updated, can claim to contain  
the modern marvels of Science and Technology. Second reason is the  
western propaganda(in british era) which propagated myths to deny our  
glorious Vedic past, the western propagandists devised Aryan Invasion  
Theory to systematically bring ridicule to our Vedas and to make  
common people believe that Vedas are nothing but mythology having no  
science in them and the worst part is that this illogical propagandist  
theory is still taught in the Indian schools(here i admit that even i  
studied this theory in history in class 7th and believed it to be true  
untill i researched on the internet) please visit this link to see a  
volley of articles proving that aryan invasion theory is a myth  
<http://www.archaeologyonline.net/artifacts/aryan-invasions.html>  
  
I came across some e-books containing proofs verifying Scientific  
knowledge in Vedas, let me share them with you one-by-one:  
  
<http://www.ziddu.com/download/12544568/science-of-the-sacred-2010.pdf.htmlhttp://www.ziddu.com/download/12544568/science-of-the-sacred-2010.pdf.html>  
This e-book contains a no. of proofs from Sulabh Sutra(which we know  
as pythagoras theorem) to binary no. system in Vedas, here's an  
excerpt from the e-book: "Voltaire, the famous French writer and  
philosopher stated that "Pythagoras went to the Ganges to learn  
geometry." Abraham Seidenberg, author of the authoritative "History of  
Mathematics," credits the Sulba Sutras as inspiring all mathematics of  
the ancient world from Babylonia to Egypt to Greece"  
  
<http://www.ziddu.com/download/12544570/ManagementscienceinVedas.pdf.html>  
This e-book contains the Management Science described in Bhagwad Geeta  
by the Great Management Guru Shree Krishna and shows how vedic  
management is more accurate and successful than modern management  
theories  
  
<http://www.ziddu.com/download/12544569/TheSpeedofLightandPuraniccosmologybysubhashkak.pdf.html>  
and this e-book contains the research paper by Subhash Kak on  
'calculating the speed of light from Vedas' and 'The Puranic  
Cosmology'  
  
In addition to these e-books, here is the link from where you can  
download a Video Documentary on the Scientific Verification of the  
Vedic Knowledge, I urge you all to see this great documentary  
<http://www.devavision.org/videos.html>  
  
In my previous posts I said that the Scientific information is  
encrypted in our Vedas so let me tell you that Vedic Mathematics is  
not merely an effort by Shree Shankaracharya to popularize maths but  
what he did was that he decrypted the hidden information in the  
Rigveda and formulted 16 mathetical Sutras. All the "self proclaimed  
intellects" please note I am stressing that he "Decrypted" the shlokas  
in Rigveda to form the maths sutras. so this proves that science and  
techology is preserved and decrypted in our vedas in the form of poems  
and praises of God. Another example is the Shree Yantra, for thousands  
of years people worshiped it, some people wear them and some put them  
in their homes for Shakti but our Rishis have been using it for  
developing mind power and meditation and modern research proves that  
medatiting by staring at the central dot of the Shree Yantra improves  
communication between our right half and left half our brain thereby  
increasing IQ and thinking ability. The world is full of such  
examples.  
  
Also I've observed that whenever such discussions take place on our  
heritage and in particular the Vedic knowledge, then some or the other  
"pseudo-rationalist" jumps in between and poses questions like: "Why  
there is a need to discuss these old Vedic rants?", "Even if Vedas  
cotained Science and Technology then also its illogical to dig them  
now?" "Why should we care to verify 5000 years old documents?" "We  
Indians are suffering from inferiority complex hence this effort is to  
glorify ourselves to feel better" etc etc the list of doubts is  
endless. well i ask such "self-proclaimed intellects" that why  
shouldn't we? Why shouldn't we decipher the knowledge in Vedas? and  
Why should'nt we try to remember the forgotten? Why shouldn't we care  
for our heritage? We should take pride while discussing our past  
instead of being skeptical all the time, here I am not asking to  
blindly accept anything but we should believe only the statements  
backed by solid proof. No offenses meant.  
Sorry for such a long post  
  
Dhanyawaad,  
Neeraj Semwal

