+++
title = "008 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-04-22, 00:17:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/Y_gYBLi9VMo)]]



Dear Group,  
  
I too, like Abhyankarji, was not sure about the proper meaning of  
अङ्कानां वामतो गतिः. However, every authority seems certain that it  
means that ‘numbers proceed to the leftward’. Datta and Singh say the  
following and also give an explanation as to how this expression got  
created.  
  
\<The extensive use of word numerals by early mathematicians such as  
Pulisha, Varahamihira, Lalla and others appears to have set the  
fashion to write the word numerals with a right to left arrangement,  
which was generally followed by later writers.  
  
No explanation as to why the right to left arrangement was preferred  
in the word system is to be found in any of the ancient works. The  
following explanation suggests itself to us, and we believe that it is  
not far from the truth. The different words forming a number  
chronogram were to be so selected that the resulting word expression  
would fit in with the meter used. To facilitate the selection the  
number was first written down in numerical figures. The selection of  
the selection of the proper words would then, naturally, begin with  
the figure in the unit place, and proceed to the left just as in  
arithmetical operations. This is in accordance with the rule “ankanam  
vamato gatih”, i.e., ‘the numerals proceed to the left’ which seems to  
have been very popular with the Indian mathematicians. The right to  
left arrangement is thus due to the desire of the mathematicians to  
look upon the formation of the word chronogram as a sort of  
arithmetical operation.> p. 62  
  
Dr. Bhat’s observes that English also follows the same pattern as that  
of Sanskrit (putting the smaller number first and the larger next to  
it) for numbers like eleean, twelve, thirteen, fourteen. Indeed, but  
that is true only till twenty. From twenty-one onwards, English  
reverses itself and starts putting the larger number first as in  
twenty-one, twenty-two etc. Sanskrit continues with the original  
pattern.  
  
The Russian language follows the same pattern as that of English. See  
одиннадцатЬ, двенадцать, тринадцать etc. for eleven, twelve, thirteen  
till nineteen. The smaller component comes first. However, this is  
reversed from twent-one onwards. двадцать is twenty. The numbers  
thereafter are двадцать один, двадцать два, двадцать три etc., the  
larger component coming first and the smaller following it.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Tornto, April 21, 2011.  
  
  
  

