+++
title = "000 Dr. Janakisharan Acharya"

+++
[[Dr. Janakisharan Acharya	2018-02-16, 21:30:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/aPEvw7BvmwU)]]



Respected Sir/Madam,

  

We are happy to inform your learned self that**Shree Somnath Sanskrit University, Veraval**is organizing the**49^(th)session of All India Oriental Conference (AIOC)**on**18th , 19th& 20thMay 2018**. The All India Oriental Conference has since the last ten decades served as National forum of scholars interested in Orientology. This All India Oriental Conferencebrings together scholars working in diverse branches of Oriental studies such as Vedic studies, Iranian studies, Classical Sanskrit, Islamic Studies, Arabic & Persian, Pali & Buddhism, Prakrit & Jainism, Archaeology, Indian Linguistics, Gujrati Language &Literature etc., and thus the AIOC helps them to present and discuss the results of their manifold researches.

  

The success of a session of the All India Oriental Conference depends entirely upon the active participation of Universities, learned societies and scholars interested in the various subjects coming under the purview of the Conference. Universities and Learned societies are, therefore, requested to depute delegates to the session. All persons interested in Oriental learning and research are requested to enroll themselves as members of the conference by filling in the membership and registration form.

**  
**

**Your support is solicited by way of encouraging them to attend this event and make it a grand success. We are sure that without your personal interest and association, we cannot achieve the desired success. I am enclosing the detail of this conference containing all the relevant information for your kind reference. Kindly encourage your learned scholars to participate in this prestigious AIOC and circulate these details among them. We shall highly appreciate your support to the All India Oriental Conference.**

  

To participate in 49th session of AIOC you have to pay the delegate fee which is as-

**·Rs. 2000/- for delegates that includes sharing based lodging & boarding (per head),**

****

**·Rs. 1500/- for Local delegates only for boarding (No lodging will be provided)**

****

**·Rs. 1000/- for Research Student (M.A/M.Phil./Ph.D.) (No lodging facility)**

Delegate fee has to be sent in the form of Demand Draft in favor “**LOCAL SECRETARY ALL INDIA ORIENTAL CONFERENCE**” to this address**Local Secretary, 49^(th)All India Oriental Conference, Shree Somnath Sanskrit University, Rajendra Bhuvan Road, Veraval-362266 Dist. Gir Somnath (Gujarat)**before***31st March, 201*8.**

**  
**

A Hardcopy of your Research Paper/ Abstract has to be sent to concerned sectional president (sectional president detail is available in 1^(st)Bulletin of AIOC and one hardcopy and softcopy of Research Paper/ Abstract is to be sent Local Secretary, 49th All India Oriental Conference, Shree Somnath Sanskrit University, Rajendra Bhuvan Road, Veraval-362266 Dist. Gir Somnath (Gujarat) before**31st March 2018**.



For more details and updates of 49th AIOC please visit[www.sssu.ac.in](http://www.sssu.ac.in/)and[www.aioc.in](http://www.aioc.mhpravesh.in/)

  

For details, please see the attachments.

  

With best Regards,

