+++
title = "000 P.K.Ramakrishnan"

+++
[[P.K.Ramakrishnan	2013-03-25, 13:29:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/3um7xrFdrZo)]]



  

Parikshit was the descendant of Pandavas. While hunting he made the mistakeof putting a dead snake on the neck of a rishi who was practicing mouna vratam. That rishis son on seeing his father thus cursed that Parikshit would be bitten by the snake Takshaka in seven days. When Takshaka was going to the palace of Parikshit he saw Kasyapa. Read on -
                                   
                the

"And when the seventh day had arrived, a Brahmana , named Kashyapa was going to/palace of Parikshit. Then Thakshaka spake unto Kasyapa without loss of time, saying, 'Where dost thou go so quickly, and what is the business on which thou goest?' Kasyapa replied, saying, 'O Brahmana, I am going whither king Parikshit, that best of the Kurus, is. He shall today be burnt by the poison of the snake Takshaka. I go there quickly in order to cure him, in fact, in order that, protected by me, the snake may not bite him to death.' Takshaka answered, saying, 'Why dost thou seek to revive the king to be bitten by me? I am that Takshaka. O Brahmana, behold the wonderful power of my poison. Thou art incapable of reviving that monarch when bit by me.' So saying, Takshaka, then and there, bit a lord of the forest (a banian tree). And the banian, as soon as it was bit by the snake, was converted into ashes. But Kasyapa revived it. Takshaka thereupon tempted him, saying, 'Tell me thy desire.' And Kasyapa, too, thus addressed, spake again unto Takshaka, saying, 'I go there from desire of wealth.' And Takshaka, thus addressed, then spake unto the high-souled Kasyapa in these soft words, 'O sinless one, take from me more wealth than what thou expect from that monarch, and go back!' And Kasyapa, that foremost of men, thus addressed by the snake, and receiving from him as much wealth as he desired, wended his way back.”





-----------------------------------  
P.K.Ramakrishnan  
<http://peekayar.blogspot.com>

