+++
title = "027 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-03-30, 22:47:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/WNbhNu2rWic)]]



Dear Group,  
  
A disputation started when I said that Macaulay’s Minute resulted in  
the introduction of European Sciences and the English Language into  
the school curricula of Indian schools, because he was of the view  
that this was called for to properly interpret the Charter Act of  
1813.. He wrote in his Minute:  
  
\< ...the opinion of some of the gentlemen who compose the Committee of  
Public Instruction, that the course which they have hitherto pursued  
was strictly prescribed by the British Parliament in 1813,... It does  
not appear to me that the Act of Parliament can, by any art of  
construction, be made to bear the meaning which has been assigned to  
it. It contains nothing about the particular languages or sciences  
which are to be studied. A sum is set apart 'for the revival and  
promotion of literature and the encouragement of the learned natives  
of India, and for the introduction and promotion of a knowledge of the  
sciences among the inhabitants of the British territories.' It is  
argued, or rather taken for granted, that by literature, the  
Parliament can have meant only Arabic and Sanskrit literature, that  
they never would have given the honourable appellation of 'a learned  
native' to a native who was familiar with the poetry of Milton, the  
Metaphysics of Locke, and the Physics of Newton; but that they meant  
to designate by that name only such persons as might have studied in  
the sacred books of the Hindoos all the uses of cusa-grass, and all  
the mysteries of absorption into the Deity. This does not appear to be  
a very satisfactory interpretation. \>  
  
(For those interested, the whole Minute is available at  
<http://www.columbia.edu/itc/mealac/pritchett/00generallinks/macaulay/.>..  
)  
  
It is worth noting that in the whole Minute, despite some derogatory  
words about traditional Indian learning, Macaulay has not suggested  
anywhere that teaching of traditional Indian knowledge should be  
discouraged or banished. He only wanted to expand the scope of the  
curriculum to also include European sciences and liberal arts, which –  
and we all have to agree with this because it is a matter of fact –  
was absent in the traditional Indian learning. What is wrong in  
saying this? And why crib about giving credit where it is deserved?  
  
I may mention here that at about the same time a college called  
‘Sanskrit College’ was founded in Poona in 1837 under the supervision  
of Capt. (later Major) Candy. It became ‘Sanskrit and Vernacular  
College ‘in 1851 and still later became the Deccan Arts College in  
1857. It has survived into our time as the famous Deccan College,  
devoted mainly to research in Linguistics, Indology and similar  
subjects. (<http://wiki.fibis.org/index.php?title=Poona>) Thus, far  
from discouraging Sanskrit learning, an institution devoted to  
Sanskrit learning was created in the time Macaulay was in India and  
that has survived into our time. There is nothing comparable that has  
come down to us from pre-British days because, as I had said earlier,  
Indian efforts were centered on individual scholars and dependent on  
chance generosity. They were not institutionalized and did not enjoy  
any official support. I also cannot resist mentioning here that one  
of my gg-grandfathers, Mahadeoshastri Kolhatkar, was a student in the  
Sanskrit College and later rose to prominence in the Education  
Department of the Bombay Presidency. He is today remembered for his  
translation of Othello, biography of Columbus and some poetry books he  
wrote for schools.  
  
My posting has evoked a few critical responses and hence this rather  
lengthy note to set out my thinking in greater detail. I shall also  
attempt to answer some notable criticisms.  
It has been suggested in one rejoinder to me that Indians themselves  
would have acquired all this new knowledge through their own efforts?  
When, may I ask? And does the world stand still while we find leisure  
to discover this knowledge? From the Dark Ages it took the Europeans  
400 years before they reached the state of knowledge of physical  
sciences and Mathematics of the early 19th century. Our contribution  
to these branches was nil to negligible in 2000 years so why imagine  
that it would have come to us through a miracle or an अपौरुषेय  
revelation in the next 20 or 30 years?  
  
Examples of Russia, Japan and China have been given to support the  
view that indigenous effort is enough to create this knew knowledge.  
Let us look at these examples one by one and see whether India of the  
early 19th century too could have done so.  
  
In Russia, from the time of Peter the Great, there was awareness that  
Europe had a lot that Russia could learn. Peter himself went to  
Europe to understand this first hand, travelling incognito, though it  
did not take long before his cover was blown. Later, he built a new  
capital on the swamps near the Baltic Sea – original St Petersburg,  
then Petrograd of the Revolution, then Leningrad and now again St  
Petersburg – because he thought that Russia should have its face  
towards the West and that land-locked Moscow, too weighed down by  
feudalism, too controlled by Boyars and too steeped in old traditions  
of the Orthodox Church did not provide it. All manner of European  
learned men, artisans, soldiers and others started frequently visiting  
Russia and some chose to live there permanently. The Tsarist Russian  
Army had a very large presence of German officers. Russian  
aristocracy held the French language and culture in very high esteem.  
(In Tolstoy’s War and Peace, almost every aristocrat speaks French.)  
Russian benefitted very substantially from these influences.  
  
The Chinese had taken to going to the America from very early days,  
initially to do menial and labour jobs. By the middle of the 19th  
century not only cities on the Western Coast like San Francisco but  
even far-away New York has substantial Chinese populations and China  
Towns. The Chinese worked on Railway gangs and helped build America’s  
rail network. All American movies of the ‘Western’ genre have a  
ubiquitous Chinese Laundryman. Large number missionaries worked in  
China. Sun Yat-sen and Chiang Kai-shek were Christians and Pearl Buck  
grew up in China as her parents were missionaries. China picked up  
its modernity from these and similar close western contacts.  
  
In Japan, after the Meiji Revolution of 1868, international search for  
knowledge became a primary goal of the new Japan. (http://  
[en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meiji_period](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meiji_period)) Under the leadership of the  
Emperor, Japan realised the need to modernize and took several steps  
in that direction, including importation of foreign technicians and  
workers to teach new methods to the Japanese and sending young  
students to foreign lands on stipend to learn new sciences. The  
result was that by 1905, Japan had become sufficiently strong and  
modernized to take on and defeat Tsarist Russia in the Russo-Japanese  
Conflict.  
  
Which of these things were possible in India? The country already was  
enslaved by the British. There was no single ruler left who could take  
matters in his hands and give a new direction to it. All Maharajas,  
Rajas, Nabobs and sundry potentates were preoccupied with staying in  
the good books of the British Rulers and thereby preserving their  
petty fiefdoms and lives of ease. Brahmins, another leading group,  
were busy ensuring that their perch on the top of the dung heap of the  
caste system was secure. There was a total lack of awareness that  
India had anything at all to learn from the West. न वदेत् यावनीं  
भाषां प्राणै: कण्ठगतैरपि was the resolve and boast of the learned  
Brahmin. None had ever visited the West, none had the desire to do so  
and none could have done so, upon the pain of excommunication and  
losing caste, the worst fate for an Indian, as crossing the oceans was  
forbidden. Not eating food cooked by म्लेच्छs and other lowly people  
was another self-imposed constraint. So examples of Russia, China and  
Japan, fine as they are, were an impossibility in India.  
अगच्छन्वैनतेयोऽपि पदमेकं न गच्छति।  
  
It therefore looks certain that India was not equipped at all to  
acquire modern knowledge that it sorely lacked? If such knowledge had  
not come into India at all, what would have happened?  
  
In these circumstance the concept of political unity of India as one  
country would not have been created. Who had this foresight and who  
had the moral or military strength to wield India into one country?  
The concept of political nationhood would not have arisen at all. All  
our history hitherto had been of groups of Indians fighting each  
other. This went on right till the dawn of the 19th century. Rajputs  
constantly fought among themselves and called it bravery. Upon the  
death of an Indian ruler, his sons fought each other. Pindaris were  
employed by rulers to harass their opponents and rampaged uncontrolled  
over large swathes of the country. Marathas went to the farthest  
corners of India to rob the poor peasants and collect by the force of  
arms Chouthai (right to ¼ of the revenue) and Sardeshmukhi (1/14th of  
the revenue). (One of my ancestors, Bhaskar Ram, or Bhaskar Pandit as  
he is known in Bengal to this day, was the representative of the  
Nagpur Bhonslas sent to collect these from Bengal and made several  
forays there for this purpose. In one of these, he was treacherously  
assassinated by Aliverdi Khan. The poor of Bengal had such a dread of  
the Maratha looters that the word ‘Bargi’ –for Bargir or Maratha foot-  
soldier- has become a part of the Bengali language and is used by  
mothers to frighten the children into sleep.) There were deep and  
insurmountable divisions between castes. There was a total absence of  
pragmatic leadership. It was a case of all-round chaos in which the  
British, far better modernized and disciplined, found it easy to  
gobble up India. That is why I said, \`Do not blame the British for  
your becoming slaves, blame yourself.\`  
  
In this state of chaos, and whenever the British left (-This they were  
bound to do sooner or later as some far-sighted British thinkers were  
already predicting. It is an onerous task to govern such a huge  
country from a distance of 6,000 miles.-), the country, riven by  
several divisions of caste, language, religion, and customs would have  
broken down in tiny pieces. It would have been another Africa. And  
let me say this though it may anger some – Indian Metaphysics and  
Philosophy could not have saved it from such dissolution, just as they  
had not saved it in any of the earlier political crises.  
  
At this juncture Macaulay’s Minute put India onto to the path of  
modernity by forcing – if that is the word preferred by some – modern  
subjects and curricula into the educational system of India. He may  
have done it all for the wrong reasons, if that is what some would  
think but he did it all the same and we are enjoying its fruits till  
this day – or do we deny that too and prefer to celebrate our earlier  
benighted state?  
  
When I mentioned en passant that Princep deciphered the Brahmi script  
that was forgotten by the self-styled custodians of knowledge and  
revealed our own glorious past to us, someone mentioned that if not  
Princep, somebody else would have done so. If Einstein had not  
thought of Relativity, someone else could have done so. What is so  
special about Princep or Einstein?  
  
I cannot speculate as to when, if at all, Brahmi would have been  
deciphered, if not by Princep or Relativity thought of, if not by  
Einstein. Also, our own record of intellectual curiosity does not  
fill me with confidence that one of us could have done it soon  
enough. It is not as though a dozen other Indian savants were after  
the same pursuit and Princep just pipped them to the post.  
  
The fact is that Princep and Einstein did what they did it and no  
amount of carping can take that credit away. Here, in a lighter mood,  
I can quote a Marathi proverb: आत्याबाईला मिशा असत्या तर आम्ही तिला  
काका म्हटलं असतं. ( If the Aunt had a moustache, we would have called  
her ‘Uncle’.) Well, that may be so but the fact remains that the Aunt  
does not have a moustache! The Olympic medal is awarded to the sole  
runner who runs fastest. Nobody much cares for other runners who, in  
the fullness of time, might have been the fastest runners had the real  
fastest not run.  
  
This posting has already become quite long so I shall stop here. I  
shall give my take on Dharampal’s book in another post.  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, March 30, 2011.  

