+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2014-09-09, 00:00:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/zNkxQnjpPwE)]]



Courtesy: Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings. As **Mahalaya Paksham** starts on **Tuesday, Sep 9, 2014**, I am happy to share a rare hymn **Sri Gadadhara Stotram from Varaha Puranam, and Chapter 7** titled "Attainment of Liberation By Uttering Gadadhara Stotram" which appears as part of life of **Sage Raibhya**.

  

As we all know, **Mahalaya Paksham** is an yearly occasion (that spans 15 days culminating in the **Mahalaha Amavasya**) that is devoted to ancestral worship. We have also seen the importance of worship of the manes through various postings earlier. Offering ancestral worship at **Gaya** in **Bihar** at the **Vishnuapada Temple** is considered the ultimate of the offering. Many Purans including Varaha Puran extol the greatness of offering Shraddha at Gaya.

  

In Varaha Purana, Chapter 7, **Sage Raibhya** offers **Shraddha** to his ancestors and get blessed by the appearance of **Sage Sanatkumara**. Sage Sanatkumar declares that Sage Raibhya is indeed blessed because of his interest in Vedas, ancestral worship at Gaya and recounts the story of **King Vishala from city Vishala**.

  

**King Vishala**, although apious and dharmic ruler, was without progeny and therefore asked sages for a way to get progeny who advised him to go to Gaya and offer shraddha for the ancestors. When the king did as instructed, his father, grandfather and great grandfather appear in front of him in white, red and black colors. His father recounted that his father and grandfather were destined to hell due to their bad deeds but because Vishala offered Pinda for all the three at Gaya, they were about to attain liberation and such is the power of **Gaya Shraddha**. **Lord Narayana** was seen at **Gaya as Lord Gadadhara** and therefore installed in the temple (**Vishnupada Temple**).

  

One who goes to Gaya and recites this Gadadhara Hymn achieves better fruits that those achieved by offering Pinda to manes themselves. In short, **offering shraddha at Gaya is rare and sacred and it is even more sacred to recite this hymn**.

  

A couple of years ago, I had sent another hymn titled **Vasudevabhidana Stotra** on Lord Vishnu from Padma Purana and another titled **Vedantasara Garbha Stuti on Lord Shiva by Lord Vishnu** from **Tejinivana Mahatmyam** which are also said to please ancestors when chanted on the day of shraddha. I remember sendinga couple of rare **Vishnu/Krishna Ashtottarams** whichclaim similar benefits.

  

**Though this is a hymn on Lord Narayana, the sixth stanza corroborates that it is Lord Gadadhara who presents Himself threefold - Brahma as creator, Narayana as protector and Rudra as destroyer. Hence all talks of difference in vital statistics among the Trinity are plain insanity and bunkum.**

  

May the Pitru Ganas and Lord Gadadhara be pleased with the recital of Sri. Gadadhara Stotram during Mahalaya Paksha. **It should not be construed that this hymn is meant only for ancestral worship** - the hymn mentions that one who prostrates before Lord Gadadhara lives happily and the hymn seeks Him to bestow courage in discharging righteous and spiritual duties and save one from the terrible Samsara and ultimately liberation.

  
[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XOTR5bkJwOUdKSWs/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XXzRtOTU4VWJjdFk/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XNlVTSnI1aU5SYlk/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XTjFyTEp2ek5zejA/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Sanskrit](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XdDM2b2tKUkNXQjA/edit?usp=sharing)  

  

