+++
title = "000 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2014-09-22, 18:50:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/CsxvA0s3Lx4)]]



Courtesy: Sri.K.Muralidharan Iyengar  
  
  

Dear All,

  

Greetings and Namaste. As **Navaratri** is just round the corner, I am happy to share a rare **Durga Sahasranamam** from **Tantraraja Tantram** - as the first instalment for Navaratri. There are many **Durga Ashtottarams** and **Sahasranamas** and this is perhaps one of the most potent one as one can see from the **Phalashruti** - the mere chanting of this gives the benefit equivalent of thousands and crores of different **Yajnas**.

  

Durga is worshipped in many forms and is personified as **Mahamaya** or **Vishnumaya**. We have seen in many previous postings with citations from different ancient texts that the **Devi** forms could be many but essentially the same.

  

We have also seen in the recent posting of **Gopala Sahasranama** from **Narada Pancharatra** that a person who treats **Durga** and **Radha** as different is not qualified to recite **Gopala Sahasranama** - remember that this statement occurs in a **Vaishnavite Agama** Text. In the same text in a different location, **Goddess Parvati** tells Lord Krishna that she indeed is **Lakshmi** and takes different forms along with the **Avatars** of **Vishnu** as his consort**.** This very much imessage s corroborated in **Varaha Puranam** too and declares that one who differentiates between **Vishnu/Shiva** and **Parvati/Lakshmi** is an **Adhama**.

  

We have also seen in yet another citation from **Padma Purana** that **Lord Krishna** mentions that the **Shakti** takes four different forms and one of the form is **Vishnu** and therefore **Gauri** and **Vishnu** are one the same in masculine and feminine forms - one who differentiates these two is sure to suffer in hell. In **Pradhaneeka Rahasyam**, **Goddess Lakshmi** is personified as the root of the universe and the **Trinity** arose from them. In **Rudra Yamala**, **Lord Shiva** mentions that **Radha** is the root of the universe and everything came from her (this message occurs in **Brahma Vaivarta Puran** too). So whatever name we choose to call, it is essentially the same - **mUlaprakRRirIshvarI**.

  

**Durga** is known as **durgati-hAriNi** - one who destroys misfortunes! May we pray to Her and Seek Her Blessings!

  

[English](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XS3lRaEViby1Hdk9LQ3FhYl9pN2NSenRxSVJv/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Malayalam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XMG5YdTQxeGhQVW9SRlUxcThyMWkzQWljRFZZ/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Kannada](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XZllkNEtBU0dfX0F4OEtDZDVPWnN3U2o4MjVV/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Telugu](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XWTFpdmpCS28xQTVLZm15UUhmN1BsQ3NmSHdv/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Tamil](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XdzR1V1MtLURQN1MwRlJXSW1mWm1kV0ZRSXVr/edit?usp=sharing)  

[Sanskrit](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0ByHsyol17T5XbFJQZWh5TmRzTTdxdVlLX0VsdkdTSkRfb3RZ/edit?usp=sharing)  

