+++
title = "000 Dr. T. Mahendar"

+++
[[Dr. T. Mahendar	2012-12-18, 11:12:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/AeMHUpvEKYw)]]



Interested scholars are invited to send their paper for consideration. after consideration of paper acceptance will be given by E-mail. Participants will get certificates for it .

**Medium of the Paper** could be in**Sanskrit,Hindi & English**. The Paper could cover on Poem of Dr.Ramakant Shukla .out of the collected poems of him in Sarvashuklottara published by Devavani Parishad,Delhi in 2008,Sarvashukla in 2005 and Bhati Me Bharatam.

  

Abstract limit: 150-200 words  
  

Last date for receiving abstracts: **22 DEC 2012**  
Intimation regarding acceptance of abstract: **22 DEC 2012**  
Last date of submission of full paper: **23 DEC 2012**  
Contact us:****[**swasti...@gmail.com**]()

  
**Format for Paper**  
The contributors are requested to send their abstracts keeping the following format of MS  
Word Document in consideration Page size : A-4  
Margin : 1'Top,Bottomless”and 1”Right  
Line spacing : 1.5  
Alignment : Justified  
Font name : English Language Times New Roman  
Font size : English Language- 12 points  
Title of the Paper : Bold Style and Central Alignment  
Font size : English Language-14 points

  
Author‟s name : Right Alignment below the Title of the Paper, Italic Style  
References should be given in the APA style only.  
Contributor's Paper Title, Name(s) of the Author(s), Designation, Institute, e-mail address  
and mobile number should be placed in the appropriate place.  

  

--  

**Dr. T. Mahendar,**  
    Asst. Professor,

Mukta Swadhyaya Peetham,  
Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan,

(Deemed University Under MHRD, GOI)  
New Delhi.

