+++
title = "006 K.N.RAMESH"

+++
[[K.N.RAMESH	2010-09-14, 14:09:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/wWQvBXg3PnU)]]



### Just to add what Vimala Mahodayaa said:

pl seethe posting in my blog [www.knramesh.blogspot.com](http://www.knramesh.blogspot.com/) in November 2009 on the subject.

### 1) [Women & vedas](http://knramesh.blogspot.com/2009/11/women-vedas.html)

Courtesy : Sri.S.S.Rao

-------------------------------

I keep getting inquiries on this subject and think that it would be useful for the others also.  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>My dear young enquirers,  
\>\>  
\>\>There is nothing in the scriptures which bars women from studying vedas.  
\>\>  
\>\>Gulab  
\>\>bai Tripati who started conducting death rites at her age of 11 years  
\>\>(after her father passed away) died at the age of 86 years in 2005. Since she questioned the Brahmin gurus at such a conservative era, she was forced to leave the traditional ghat in Allahabad. She built her own ghat called Rasulabad ghat with her hard earned money.  
\>\>She has been compared to Gargi who questioned Yagnavalkya as she had questioned the traditional gurus of her age.  
\>\>  
\>\>Sandhyavandanam was the first woman in Andhra Pradesh to obtain a doctorate in Vedic studies. She  
\>\>forayed into the male dominated profession and performs all the sixteen  
\>\>samskaaras not only in Andhra, but even in Pune and Tamilnadu. She has been conducting Upanayanam for boys and girls also.  
\>\>  
\>\>There are others like Suneeti, Vasudhasastry, Oruganti Lakshmidevi (miryalaguda) ,  
\>\>Sulochana, Saraswathamma (Kamareddy), Swarooparani (east Godavari), Kalyani (Tenali).  
\>\>  
\>\>Shashi  
\>\>Tandon has conducted countless samskaaras in the USA (Illinois,  
\>\>Michigan, Wisconsin etc.,) and has become very popular there.  
\>\>  
\>\>Purohits  
\>\>from Choutpally, Nizamabad-Pranavesw ari, Rajeswari, Bhuvaneswari,  
\>\>Gnaneswari etc., not only conduct pourohityam but run Vedic schools for  
\>\>girls. All these ladies are married and they have children too.  
\>\>  
\>\>In Kendra Para (Orissa) - Maa Kharakiya temple on the banks of Brahmani River, men are not allowed!!  
\>\>Sandhya Kulkarni conducted the shraadh of actor Mohan Agashe's mother.  
\>\>  
\>\>When  
\>\>most men are abandoning the traditional professions for considerations  
\>\>of economy and status and women doing such works efficiently, why not  
\>\>think of encouraging them further?  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
A FEW AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT  
\>\> 1. The "Brahma" in a yajna is the best trained purohit who can correct the others involved in the yajna.BRAHMAA VAA RITVIJAABHMISHAKTAM AHA - Shatapatha brahmana 1.7.4.19.  
\>\>"Thasyaadyo brahmanishtaha syaath tham brahmaanam kurveeth"  
\>\>"Atha kena brahmtvam kreeyathe iti trayyaa vidyayethi, trayya vidyayeti ha brooyaath" (Aithareya 5.33)  
\>\> Now, an woman can be a brahma as mentioned in Rigveda ( 8.33.-19)  
\>\>"......sthree hi brahmaa vibhoovidhaha"  
\>\> 2."AachaaryadaNatvam"... Ashtaadhyaayi 4.3.2.49  
\>\>"ACHHARYASYA STREE AACHAARYAANEE PUM YOGA ITHYEVA AACHAARYA SVAYAM VYAAKHYAATREE"  
\>\>-Siddhaanta koumudi  
\>\>( the woman who conducts the veda pravachana is called an Achaarya)  
\>\> 3.Aachaarya lakshana :-  
\>\> "UPANEEYA TUM YAHA SHISHYA VEDAMADHYAAPAYED DWIJAHA, SAKALPA SARAHASYAM CHA THAMAACHAARYA PRACHAKSHATHE"  
\>\>( The one who can conduct the upanayana samskaara and teaches the Vedas is called the Aachaarya)  
\>\>Siddhaanta Koumudi edited by Mahamahopaadhyaaya pandit Shivadatta sarma says,  
\>\>"ITI VACHANENAAPI STREENAM VEDAADHYANAADIKAARO DHVANITHAHA"  
\>\>(THIS MAKES IT CLEAR THAT WOMEN HAS VEDAADHIKAARA)  
\>\> 4.Rigveda 10.159-2.3  
\>\>"THADVIDAHA.......UTAAHAMASMI SAM JAYAA...UTTAMAM"  
\>\>( May I get  
\>\>a good husband.....Because of Vedas, I will become tejasvi and a powerful  
\>\>spokes person...May my daughter shine well because of her good character)  
\>\>  
\>\> 5.Taandya brahmana (5-6-8) advises that women have to chant saamaved along with veena when a yajna is being conducted. The Mantra 5.5.29 ordains that the women have to circumambulate the yajna kunda chanting the veda mantras.  
\>\> 6..The kumari Gandharva grahathaa story in Eithareya proves that the women had all rights for Vedas. Laatyayana shrouthasootra, Shaankaayana shroutha sootra etc., also confirms the rights of women for Vedas.  
\>\>  
\>\> There are several other authorities advising women to chant veda mantras. Please see Yajurveda23- 23, 25-27, 29; Shatapatha brahmana 1-9-2-2-1, 1.9.2.22.23; Taittareeya samhitha 1.1.10, Aaswalaayana grihya sootra 1.1.9, Kaataka grihyasootra 3.1.30, 27-3, Paaraskara grihyasootra 1.5.1,2. ,  
\>\>Yajurveda 36-24 "tacchakshurdeva sahitam..." is to chanted only by a woman.  
\>\>Rigveda 10-85.48 has to be chanted by husband and wife together.  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>Some more Authorities for women chanting veda mantras:-  
\>\>  
\>\>Examples  
\>\>of women mantradrashtaaras: Ghoshaa, godhaa, vishvavaraa, Apaalaa,  
\>\>Upanishad, Jahu, Indraani, saramaa, Romashaa, Oorvashi, Lopaamudraa,  
\>\>Yamee, Shaashvathee, Sooryaasavithree, ......etc.,  
\>\>\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>Rigveda 10-134, 10-39, 10-40, 8-91, 10-95, 10-109, 10-154, 10-159, 10-189, 5-28, 8-91 ..etc., are from women.  
\>\>  
\>\>Taittareeya  
\>\>brahmana 2-3-10.."..Tam trayee vedaa anya srijantha... .vedan pradadow"  
\>\>(Three vedas were given to the woman Seetaa-savitri through Soma)  
\>\>\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>Manu's  
\>\>daughter Idaa is described in Taittareeya Brahmana( 1-1-4) as  
\>\>Yajnaprakaashinee meaning Yajna tatva prakaashana samarthaa.  
\>\>(This can be continued... )  
\>\>  
\>\>To cite examples of mention in Mahaakavyas:  
\>\>\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>Mahabharata: - Udyogaparva 190-18:  
\>\>"Atra siddhaa shivaa naama braahmNee veda paaragaahaa. ."  
\>\>( A brahmin lady by name Shivaa was a scholar of vedas and she got Moksha)  
\>\>  
\>\>A  
\>\>non brahmin lady Droupadi was a scholar of vedas. Achaarya Madhva in  
\>\>his Mahabharata tatparya nirnaya says, "Vedaaschapyuttama streebhihi  
\>\>krishnaattaabhiriha akhilaaha ( Good women should learn Vedas like  
\>\>Droupadi)  
\>\>\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>Valmiki Ramayana:-  
\>\>Sundarakaanda53- 23: Vaidehi shokasantaptaa hutaashanmupaagatam ( The sad Seeta did havan )  
\>\>VR 5-15-48:- "Sandhyaakaale .....Sandhyaartham varavarninee"  
\>\>(Seetha would certainly come to the river to perform sandhya with pure water)  
\>\>\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>Valmikiramayana  
\>\>4-16-12, 2-20-15 indicate that Kousalya and Kaikeyi also were doing  
\>\>agnihotra etc., Vaali's wife tara chanted swastimantras.  
\>\>  
\>\>Puranas :-  
\>\>Vishnupurana (1-10) and (18-19); Markandeyapurana (52); Brahma vaivarta purana (14-65) etc., may be seen.  
\>\>\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>We can go on like this, but enough to give some indication of the position.



2\) From [www.deviwoman.blogspot.com](http://www.deviwoman.blogspot.com/)

### [marriage](http://deviwoman.blogspot.com/2010/05/marriage.html)

Hi everyone! I was absent for some time, but now I’m back. And I want to write today about one of my favorite topics: marriage! Oh yes! That’s such a big source of both joy and trouble for many people and specially for women that there’s really much to be said on that.  
So, let’s start saying once more that originally women were free in vedic culture to choose their own husband: "The woman who is of gentle birth and of graceful form," so runs a verse in the Rig Veda, "selects among many of her loved one as her husband.” The term for the bridegroom was vara, the chosen one. ”The happy and beautiful bride chooses (vanute) by herself (svayam) her own husband" RV (27.12). The swayamvaras of the princesses are well documented.  
Of course there could be interference of family also, but the opinion of the woman would always be considered. And one more point that we can understand from this freedom of choice is that the woman was not a child, or she could not have the maturity to choose her own husband! Usually marriage would take time not too early in a woman’s life, nor too late. Although we know also that some woean could get married late on her life, like Gosha, a well known female sage (her husband being another well known scholar of that time, Kakasivan)who got married late cause she earlier suffered from some skin ailment. As discussed before, women also had the option of not getting married at all, if they wanted to remain single.  
Once again, what we can see is that vedic society is one of freedom and respect for women and for all living beings, where everyone has duties according to its nature and position, but also have freedom to choose their position according to their nature, as well as behave according to their personality.



3\) more such articles from [www.deviwoman.blogspot.com](http://www.deviwoman.blogspot.com/)



knr  
  
--  
If God brings you to it, He will bring you through it.  
Happy moments, praise God.  
Difficult moments, seek God.  
Quiet moments, worship God.  
Painful moments, trust God.  
  
Every moment, thank God  



EOM



On Mon, Sep 13, 2010 at 9:29 AM, \<[samskrit...@googlegroups.com]()\> wrote:  

>  style="PADDING-BOTTOM:2px;BACKGROUND-COLOR:#e8eef7;PADDING-LEFT:2px;PADDING-RIGHT:2px;FONT-FAMILY:helvetica;FONT-SIZE:140%;BORDER-TOP:#7799dd 1px solid;PADDING-TOP:2px"> >
>  Today's Topic Summary >
> 
> > Group: <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita/topics> >
> -   [Position of >     women](https://mail.google.com/mail/?ui=2&view=js&name=main,tlist&ver=Q6vO6XqMw58.en.&am=!W2uZWpgK4PexhZ4C2vD2RkQQRnSoy8mwkiw4JFdBukP8eZBlpYg&fri=64a831330d14b569226abf9283475139#12b093f562bc5ceb_group_thread_0) >     \[6 Updates\] > -   [Meaning of Naishthika >     2](https://mail.google.com/mail/?ui=2&view=js&name=main,tlist&ver=Q6vO6XqMw58.en.&am=!W2uZWpgK4PexhZ4C2vD2RkQQRnSoy8mwkiw4JFdBukP8eZBlpYg&fri=64a831330d14b569226abf9283475139#12b093f562bc5ceb_group_thread_1) >     \[2 Updates\] >
>  style="PADDING-BOTTOM:2px;BACKGROUND-COLOR:#e8eef7;PADDING-LEFT:2px;PADDING-RIGHT:2px;FONT-FAMILY:helvetica;FONT-SIZE:140%;BORDER-TOP:#7799dd 1px solid;PADDING-TOP:2px"> >
> Topic: [Position of > women](http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita/t/c1642f0578373e75) >
> 

> &nbsp;

> &nbsp;

> &nbsp;

> &nbsp;

> &nbsp;

>  style="PADDING-BOTTOM:2px;BACKGROUND-COLOR:#e8eef7;PADDING-LEFT:2px;PADDING-RIGHT:2px;FONT-FAMILY:helvetica;FONT-SIZE:140%;BORDER-TOP:#7799dd 1px solid;PADDING-TOP:2px"> >
> Topic: [Meaning of Naishthika > 2](http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita/t/32351be178bdf05a) >
> 

> &nbsp;

> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "samskrita" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to [sams...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to > [samskrita+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit this group at > <http://groups.google.com/group/samskrita?hl=en>.  

  
  
  
--  
If God brings you to it, He will bring you through it.  
Happy moments, praise God.  
Difficult moments, seek God.  
Quiet moments, worship God.  
Painful moments, trust God.  
  
 Every moment, thank God  

