+++
title = "006 DEV RAJ"

+++
[[DEV RAJ	2011-10-15, 22:58:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/12xCfSQTzHU)]]



Dear Sri Hari NarayaNa Bhat Ji and Sri Kolhatkar Ji,  
  
I present here the views of \*Asko Parpola - Sanskrit philologist,  
Helsinki  
in connection with the word Ananga . Experts may share their opinion.  
  
\[Begin Quote\]  
I find this hypothesis of Pope and Burrow endorsed by you quite  
plausible. The myth of Kaama's loss of body seems to be rather late  
and attested in Sanskrit literature later than Haala's Sattasaii,  
where aNanga- in a name of Kaama, while George Hart has argued well  
for Haala's importance in spreading Dravidian poetics and conceptions  
to Indo-Aryan literature. Besides, an-anga- is not the best possible  
Sanskrit expression for 'bodiless', since anga is rather 'body part'  
-- why do we not have a-deha as a name or epithet of Kaama? There is  
no problem in deriving MahaaraaSTrii aNanga- from \*aNangu- in the lost  
Dravidian substratum of Marathi, nor in deriving Sanskrit ananga- as a  
hypersanskritism from MahaaraaSTrii aNanga-, since Sanskrit -n- \>  
Prakrit -N- was the general rule, and the opposition between the two  
phonemes was in any case weak in Indo-Aryan since Vedic times (see  
Oskar von Hinüber, Das ältere Mittelindisch im Überblick, 2nd ed.,  
Wien 2001, p. 169-171). On the other hand, the connection of aNanku  
with love sickness and Murukan as the god of love (VeeL) in Old Tamil  
seems quite strong (cf. also Clothey, The many faces of Murukan, The  
Hague 1978, p. 26-29).  
  
\*Asko Parpola (born 1941) is a Finnish Indologist and Sindhologist,  
current professor emeritus of Indology and South Asian Studies at the  
University of Helsinki. He specializes in the Indus script. Two  
significant contributions of Parpola to the field of decipherment of  
the Indus script are creation of the (now) universally used  
classification of Indus valley seals and the proposed (much-debated)  
decipherment of the language of the script He is brother of the  
Akkadian language epigrapher Simo Parpola.  
  
dev  



