+++
title = "022 Arvind_Kolhatkar"

+++
[[Arvind_Kolhatkar	2011-10-18, 19:09:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/samskrita/c/12xCfSQTzHU)]]



Dear Group,  
  
I think we are veering away from the original topic, which was, 'what  
is the meaning of the word अनङ्ग'. That meaning is clear - अनङ्ग is  
the Indian Cupid (Cupid of the Roman mythology.) If you use the word  
in any other sense, the listener will not understand you. To give a  
lighthearted example. if XYZ dies and you convey the news by saying  
that XYZ has become अनङ्ग (which he has, in a strict literal sense of  
the word!) you will make no sense to the listener.  
  
That said, there could be other discussions as to its etymology,  
appropriateness to the meaning sought to be conveyed etc. These are  
matters of opinion and learned conjecture. A scholar may say, and may  
even be correct in saying so, that the word does not, in an apposite  
way, convey the meaning it seeks to convey. In his learned opinion,  
some other word would have conveyed that meaning better.  
  
That may be so but the fact remains that the word, inapt as it may be,  
does convey to us, because of the social drag of usage, the meaning it  
seeks to convey. Here the whim of the coiner of the word must trump  
over the learned opinion of the scholar. At this stage to argue that  
another possible word could convey that same meaning better is only a  
barren scholarly exercise.  
  
Inappropriate or unfelicitous words are being coined around us every  
day and we have to use them, though, within our own mind we may think  
that another word could have conveyed that meaning better. The  
computer has thrown up so many of these inelegant new words. 'Upload'  
is used even by the most fastidious users of language in the sense of  
putting something into a server on the internet. If we sit down to  
dissect it we could raise many objections to it. What is 'up' here  
and where is the 'load'? Could 'loadup' have been a coinage closer to  
English grammar? Many such questions and better coinages can be  
though of but the social drag ensures that we all shall continue to  
use the word 'upload', despite our private reservations about it. Why  
do we continue the use of inelegant 'URL' and not replace it with  
something more capable of conveying the underlying meaning?  
  
To sum up, 'अनङ्ग' is 'Cupid'. The whimsical person of lost memory,  
who first used it in that sense was not thinking of the grammatical  
correctness thereof. He thought that अनङ्ग best conveyed what he had  
in his mind. We are now slaves to his whim. Hard luck!  
  
Arvind Kolhatkar, Toronto, October 18, 2011.

